## SOURCE: CHOTGDP23004V012223.pdf
CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
Page 1 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
We issue this Group insurance policy to the Proposer based on the information provided by the Proposer in the
proposal form and premium paid by the Proposer. This insurance is subject to the following terms and conditions.
The method of coverage and the Benefit Limits that has been opted is indicated in the Policy Schedule/Policy
Certificate. The term You/Your/Insured/Insured Person in this document refers to the individual group members
who will be treated as Insured beneficiary and the term Proposer/Policy Holder/Group Manager/Group Organizer
in this document refers to Person/ Organisation who has signed the proposal form and in whose name the policy is
issued. Also the term Insurer/Us/Our/Company in this document refers to Cholamandalam MS General Insurance
Company Limited.
Master policy will be issued in the name of Group Manager and individual certificate may be issued to the
beneficiaries.
1. DEFINITIONS
Any word or expression to which a specific meaning has been assigned in any part of this Policy or the Schedule/
Certificate shall bear the same meaning wherever it appears in the Policy, including any subsequent
endorsements to this Policy and the Policy Schedule/Certificate. Where the context permits, references to the
singular shall also include references to the plural, similarly references to the male gender shall also include
references to the female gender, and vice versa in both cases.
For purposes of this Policy, the terms specified below shall have the meaning set forth:
A) STANDARD DEFINITONS
Accident / Accidental mean a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and violent
means.
Cashless facility means a facility extended by the Insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs of treatment
undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made to the network provider
by the Insurer to the extent pre-authorization is approved.
Condition Precedent means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability under the policy is
conditional upon.
Congenital Anomaly means a condition which is present since birth, which is abnormal with reference to form,
structure or position.
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is not in the visible and accessible parts of the
body.
b. External Congenital Anomaly: Congenital anomaly which is in the visible and accessible parts of the
body.
Deductible means a cost-sharing requirement under this policy, that provides that the Insurer will not be liable
for a specified amount or percentage of claim amount and/or number of days and/or number of hours as
specified in the policy schedule/certificate of insurance which will apply before any benefits are payable by
the Insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured and is applicable per event up to the specified
limits mentioned.
Disclosure to information norm means the Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited
to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-disclosure of any material fact.
Hospital means any institution established for inpatient care and day care treatment of illness and/or injuries and
which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and
Page 2 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Regulation) Act 2010 or under the enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR
complies with all minimum criteria as under:
- has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock;
- has at least 10 in-patient beds in towns having a population of less than 10,00,000 and at least 15
in-patient beds in all other places;
- has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge round the clock;
- has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
- maintains daily records of patients and makes these accessible to the insurance company’s
authorized personnel
Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a minimum period of 24 consecutive ‘In-patient Care’ hours except
for specified procedures/ treatments, where such admission could be for a period of less than 24consecutive hours.
Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the impairment of normal physiological
function and requires medical treatment.
a. Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to
return the person to his or her state of health immediately before suffering the disease/illness/injury
which leads to full recovery.
b. Chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more of the following
characteristics:—it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups, and / or tests—it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms— it requires rehabilitation
for the patient or for the patient to be specially trained to cope with it—it continues indefinitely—it recurs
or is likely to recur.
Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease, solely and directly caused by external,
violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
In Patient Care means treatment for which the insured person has to stay in a hospital for more than 24 hours for a
covered event.
Maternity Expenses means
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries and
caesarean sections incurred during hospitalization)
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period
Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any
prescription or follow-up prescription
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred for
medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these
are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person had not been insured and no more than
other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would have charged for the same medical treatment.
Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the Medical Council or appropriate
authority of the country where Insured Person is availing emergency treatment outside India/ Country of
origin and is thereby entitled to practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and
jurisdiction of license. The term Medical Practitioner includes any qualified physician, specialist, or surgeon,
and should not be an Immediate Family Member of the Insured Person or related to the Insured Person by
way of blood, marriage, adoption, employment, or any pre-existing business relationship.
Medically Necessary Treatment means any treatment, tests, medication, stay in Hospital or part of a stay
in Hospital in relation to the Insured Person which:
i. is required for the medical management of the Illness or Injury suffered by the Insured Person;
Page 3 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
ii. must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate
medical care in scope, duration, or intensity;
iii. must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner;
must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical practice or by the medical
community in India.
Network Provider/ Hospital means Hospitals or health care providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an
Insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.
Non- Network means any hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part of the network.
Notification of claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the recognized
modes of communication.
OPD treatment means is the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated facility like consultation
room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical Practitioner. The insured is not admitted as a day
care or in- patient. OPD to include emergency root canal treatment
Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the
Insurer or its reinstatement or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a physician within 48 months
prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement.
Qualified Nurse means a person who holds a valid registration from the Nursing Council of India or the Nursing
Council of any state in India.
Reasonable and Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the standard charges for
the specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical area for identical or similar
services, taking into account the nature of the illness / injury involved.
Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a provision of
grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time-
bound exclusions and for of all waiting periods.
Subrogation means the right of the insurer to assume the rights of the insured person to recover expenses paid out
under the policy that may be recovered from any other source.
Unproven/ Experimental treatment means the treatment including drug experimental therapy which is not based
on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or unproven.
B) SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS
Air Travel means travel by an airline/aircraft for the purpose of flying therein as a Fare paying passenger.
Alternative Treatments means forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or "modern medicine" and
includes Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy in the Indian context.
Appliances shall mean and include electrical, mechanical and electronic appliances used for household including
whilst in travel use
Adventure Sports means and includes skydiving/parachuting, parasailing, hang gliding, paragliding, ballooning
bungee jumping, scuba diving, mountaineering or rock climbing (where ropes or guides are customarily used), Speed
contest or racing of any kind, caving or pot-holing, abseiling, hunting or equestrian activities, deep sea diving, skin
diving or other underwater activity, polo, snow and ice sports, rafting or canoeing involving white water rapids,
yachting or boating, , Base Jumping, Ski Jumping, Trekking, Adventure racing on land and water, Snorkeling, Kayaking,
Surfing, marathon running as a non-professional, biking, races as a non-professional, any bodily contact sport or any
other hazardous or potentially dangerous sport.
Page 4 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Assistance Service Provider means Third Party administrator or any organization or institution appointed by the
Company, for providing services to the Insured Person for an Insured Event covered.
Baggage shall mean articles and / or personal effects of the Insured (other than property of the Business) in packing
or in containers suitable and standard to the mode of Travel that is accompanied by the Insured or whilst such Baggage
is lodged either in a locked private room of a hotel or guest house or any other accommodation occupied by the
Insured during the Insured's stay at that location or in a public locker facility availed by the Insured during the course
of or at any intermediate stage of the Travel.
Base Sum Insured means the Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate against the respective base
covers.
Burglary means theft involving entry into or exit from the Insured Person’s home in India by forcible and violent means
or following assault or violence or threat thereof, to the Insured Person or to any Immediate Family Member or any
person residing lawfully in the Insured Person’s residence, with intent to commit a felony therein and includes
housebreaking.
Checked-in Baggage means each suitcase or baggage handed over by the Insured Person and accepted by a Common
Carrier for transportation in the same Common Carrier in which the Insured Person is or would be travelling, and for
which the Common Carrier has issued a baggage receipt to the Insured Person. Checked-in Baggage excludes all items
that are carried/ transported under any contract of affreightment.
Common Carrier means any transport means by civilian land, rail, water or Scheduled Airline in each case operated
under a valid license for the transportation of passengers for hire.
Contents mean and include electrical and electronic equipment, household appliances, furniture, fixture, fittings,
linen, clothing, interior decorations, kitchen items, cutlery /crockery contained in the Insured's home belonging to the
Insured or his/her family members permanently residing with the Insured including items for which the Insured is
responsible, and used for domestic use. However, this does not include deeds, bonds, bills of exchange, promissory
notes, cheques, traveller's cheques, and securities for money, documents of any kind, cash, and currency notes.
Corporate means any organization, firm, society or body corporate on whose name the policy is issued.
Dependent Child refers to a child (natural or legally adopted), below the age of 23 years, who is financially dependent
on the primary insured or proposer and does not have his / her independent sources of income.
Disease means an alteration in the state of the body or of some of its organs interrupting or disrupting the
performance of the functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness or physical or mental disorder and
certified by a Medical Practitioner.
Family means the Insured, his/her lawful spouse and maximum of any two dependent children up to the age of 25
years, parents, parents-in laws, siblings, children’s in laws, partner
Felonious Assault means an act of violence against the Insured Person or a Travelling Companion requiring medical
treatment.
Financial Emergency means a situation where in the Insured Person loses all or a substantial amount of his/her travel
funds due to theft, robbery, mugging or dacoity, which has detrimental effects on his/her travel plans.
Group A group should consist of persons who assemble together with a commonality of purpose or engaging in a
common economic activity like employees of a company. It includes non-employer–employee groups like employee
welfare associations, co-operative society’s, Group policies being taken by Government bodies for certain
identifiable groups, credit/debit card/kisan credit card holders insured through the card issuance company,
customers of a particular business, professional associations, borrowers/depositors of a bank, customers of a bank
or aggregators, or members of any similar group being administered by a group administration wherein Insurance
is being provided as an add-on benefit.
Hazardous Occupation means persons whilst working in underground mines, explosives, magazines, workers whilst
involved in electrical installation with high tension supply, jockeys, circus personnel, Aircraft pilots and crew, armed
Page 5 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
forces personnel, artistes engaged in hazardous performances, aerial crop sprayer, Demolition contractor, explosives
users, Fisherman (Seagoing, Jockey, Marine Salvager, Miner and other occupations underground, nuclear
installations, Off-shore oil or gas rig worker, professional sports person, roofing contractors and all construction,
maintenance and repair workers at heights in excess of 50ft/15m, saw miller, scaffolder, ship crew, steeplejack,
stevedore, structural steelworker, tower crane operator, tree feller.
Hijack means any unlawful seizure or exercise of control, by force or violence or threat of force or violence and with
wrongful intent, of the Common Carrier in which the Insured Person is travelling.
Housebreaking means an act involving physical break-in and unauthorized and forcible entry into Insured Person's
home in India, or any threat, with intent to commit crime.
Immediate family member shall mean any member of the Insured Person's immediate family i.e the Insured
Person's spouse, children, parents, parents in law, Children in law, sibling, partner or travelling companion.
Inclement Weather means any severe catastrophic weather conditions which delay the scheduled arrival or
departure of a Common Carrier but not including normal, seasonal/climatic weather changes.
Insured/Insured Person means the person named in the Policy Schedule, who has a permanent place of residence in
India and for whom the insurance is proposed and appropriate premium paid. It includes foreign travelers having
traveler visa.
Insured Event means an event, loss or damage specifically described as covered and for which the Insured Person is
entitled to benefit/s under this Policy.
Land/Sea Arrangements means pre-paid travel arrangements for a scheduled tour, trip or cruise included within the
description of covered Trips on the Proposal/Enrollment and Declaration Form and arranged by a tour operator, travel
agent, or other organization.
Life threatening condition / situation” refers to a medical condition suffered by the Insured which has the following
characteristics:
i. Markedly unstable vital parameters (blood pressure, pulse, temperature and respiratory rate).
ii. Acute impairment of one or more vital organ systems (involving brain, heart, lungs, Liver, Kidneys and pancreas).
iii. Critical care being provided, which involves high complexity decision making to assess, manipulate and support vital
system function(s) to treat single or multiple vital organ failure(s) and requires interpretation of multiple physiological
parameters and application of advanced technology.
iv. Critical care being provided in critical care area such as coronary care unit, intensive care unit, respiratory care unit,
or the emergency department.
Loss means loss or damage.
Man days is a 24 hours’ period starting from midnight for an individual whilst travelling within the territorial
boundaries of India.
Master Policy Schedule/Policy Schedule means schedule attached to and forming part of this Policy, mentioning the
details of the Proposer / Group Manager, the Sum Insured, Period and limits to which benefits under the policy
would be payable.
Multi trip means two or more trips to destinations of Republic of India during the Policy period.
Natural Teeth means natural teeth that is unaltered or is fully restored to their normal function and is Disease-free,
have no decay and are not more susceptible to Injury than unaltered natural teeth.
Period of Insurance in respect of Single Trip Policy means the period from the commencement date of the insurance
cover to the Risk end Date as specified in the Policy Schedule/certificate or on the date when the insured returns to
his/her usual town of residence or the date of cancellation of the insurance, whichever is earlier
Period of Insurance in respect of the Multi Trip/ Annual policy shall mean the period from Commencement of
Insurance cover to the end of the insurance cover or full utilization of the maximum number of travel days per trip as
mentioned in Policy Schedule/Certificate, or expiry of the Policy or cancellation of the insurance, whichever is earlier.
Page 6 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Physician means a licensed medical practitioner acting within the scope of his license and who holds a degree of a
recognized institution and is registered by the Medical Council of India. The term Physician would include specialist and
surgeon. Family members are excluded from the Definition of Physician.
Policy means proposal, the Schedule/Certificate, the Policy documents and any endorsements attaching to or
forming part hereof either on the commencement date or during the Policy Period.
Policy Certificate means the document giving mentioning the name of the Insured / Insured persons, Policy Period,
scope of cover, limits to which benefits are subject to and other relevant terms and conditions.
Permanent Partial Disablement means a bodily injury caused by accidental, external, violent and visible means,
which as a direct consequence thereof, disables any part of the limbs or organs of the body of the insured/insured
person and which falls into one of the categories listed in the Table of benefits.
Permanent Total Disablement” means a bodily injury caused by accidental, external, violent and visible means, which
as a direct consequence thereof totally disables and prevents the insured from attending to any business or occupation
of any and every kind or if he/she has no business or occupation, from attending to his/her usual and normal duties
that last for a continuous period of twelve calendar months from the date of the accident, with no hopes of
improvement at the end of that period.
Pre-existing Disability means an existing disability and consequence of such disability existing or known to exist at
the commencement of the policy period.
Professional Sportsperson means those sports persons who are in to full time sports and maintain their livelihood
through earnings from their involvement in sports.
Reasonable Additional Expenses means any expenses for meals and lodging necessarily incurred by the
Insured/Insured Person as a result of a trip delay but does not include meals and lodging provided by the common
carrier or any other party free of charge.
Return Destination means the place to which the Insured/Insured Person is scheduled to return from his/her trip.
Scheduled Airline means any civilian aircraft operated by a civilian scheduled air carrier holding a certificate, license or
similar authorization for civilian scheduled air carrier transport issued by the country of the aircraft’s registry, and
which in accordance therewith flies, maintains and publishes tariffs for regular passenger service between named
cities at regular and specified times, on regular or chartered flights operated by such carrier.
Schedule Railways means any Railways operated by Indian Railways, which in accordance there with operates,
maintains and publishes tariffs for regular passenger service between named cities at regular and specified times, on
regular journey operated by such carrier.
Schedule Roadways means a roadways carrier which is operated between named cities under a valid license issued
by the appropriate Indian governmental authority for the transportation of passengers within India for a fee, and
which maintains and publishes regular tariffs for regular passenger services which it operates between named cities
at regular and specified times
Semiprofessional sports person shall mean those sports persons who participate in sports on frequent basis (at least
once in a month) while being separately employed elsewhere or self-employed and whose primary source of income
is not from sports.
Strike means stoppage of work (a) announced, organized and sanctioned by a labour union and (b) which interferes
with the normal departure and arrival of a common carrier inclusive of work slowdowns, lockouts and sickouts.
Sum Insured means the maximum amount of coverage, as specified in the Policy Schedule/certificate, that the
Insured/Insured Person is entitled to in respect of each benefit and as applicable under the Policy.
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and / or operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an illness or
injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief from suffering or prolongation of
life, performed in a hospital or day care center by a medical practitioner.
Page 7 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Terrorism/Terrorist Incident means any actual or threatened use of force or violence directed at or causing damage,
injury, harm or disruption, or the commission of an act dangerous to human life or property, against any individual,
property or government, with the stated or unstated objective of pursuing economic, ethnic, nationalistic, political,
racial or religious interests, whether such interests are declared or not. Robberies or other criminal acts, primarily
committed for personal gain and acts arising primarily from prior personal relationships between perpetrator(s) and
victim(s) shall not be considered terrorist activity. Terrorism shall also include any act, which is verified or recognized
by the relevant Government as an act of terrorism.
Travel Agent means the Travel Agent, tour operator or other entity from which the Insured purchases his/her
insurance Policy or travel arrangements, and includes all officers, employees and affiliates of the Travel Agent, tour
operator or other entity.
Travelling Companion means an individual or individuals travelling with the Insured/Insured Person, provided that,
the Insured and such individual(s) are travelling to the same destination and on the same date and such individual(s)
is/are also insured under this Policy. For the purpose of this definition, any individual(s) forming part of a group
travelling on a tour arranged by a Travel Agent or a tour operator shall not be considered as Travelling Companion,
unless the individual(s) is/are part of the family of the Insured/Insured Person.
Territory: This Policy applies to incidents anywhere in India while travelling.
“Trip” means a journey out of usual place of residence in India and back, the details of which are specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate.
Includes Business and Leisure trips both unless specified otherwise

Coverage for a Trip involving travel by <<Air/Rail/Road/Water>> will be as specified in the policy schedule/Certificate

which commences when the passenger boards the Common Carrier, including Private Vehicle for onward journey

and terminates when he disembarks on return to Your usual Town of residence or the contracted date whichever
earlier
The insured journey also includes and covers Sojourn and/or Personal Deviation.

Unattended: A Vehicle, premises or personal belongings are unattended if there is no one able to observe or to prevent
interference with it.
Valuables means photographic, audio, video, computer and any other electronic equipment, telecommunications
and electrical equipment, telescopes, binoculars, antiques, watches, perfumes, Jewellery, furs and articles made
of precious stones and metals.
War means war, whether declared or not, or any warlike activities, including use of military force by any sovereign
nation to achieve economic, geographic, nationalistic, political, racial, religious or other ends.
2. PERSONS WHO CAN BE INSURED:
 This Insurance is available for persons who is an employee or member of the Policyholder and his family
members having a permanent place of residence in India and for whom the insurance is proposed and
appropriate premium paid.
 Entry age for the member should be between 03 months to 90 years (completed age).
3. COVERAGE - BASE COVERS:
The Policy provides the following Base Covers. It is mandatory for the proposer/Insured to avail the Base Cover to
be eligible for taking this Policy from Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited. Various Base and
Optional Covers applicable for the Insured under this policy is as shown in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.
Page 8 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
The Company hereby agrees subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions herein contained or otherwise expressed,
to compensate, indemnify, pay and/or reimburse in manner provided in this policy, benefits to the insured for loss
or damage described hereunder as per the coverage and up to the limit of Sum Insured specified in the Policy
Schedule.
Claims made under any applicable cover for the Period of Insurance will be subject to the terms, conditions and
exclusions of this Policy Wording, the availability of the Sum Insured for that Cover, any applicable sub-limits and/or
Deductibles.
The Insurance policy will commence from the date and time as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate and
end on the date and time as printed on the Policy Schedule/Certificate, unless specified otherwise under the
respective cover.
Sl. No. BASE COVERS
1 Emergency Accidental Hospitalization
2 OPD Treatment
Personal Accident Covers
a. Accidental Death
3
b. Permanent Total Disability (PTD)
c. Permanent Partial Disability (PPD)
1. EMERGENCY ACCIDENTAL HOSPITALISATION:
a. Coverage:
The policy shall reimburse the Reasonable and Customary Charges for Emergency Medical Expenses incurred in the
Republic of India by insured for immediate medical services as an In-Patient, due to any accidental injury up to the
maximum Sum Insured amount and for policy period as stated in the policy schedule. The treatment shall cover
the following.
1. In-patient treatment in a local hospital at the place where the Insured is staying at the time of the event;
2. X-ray, diagnostic tests and all reasonable costs towards diagnostic methods and treatment during
hospitalisation.
3. Heat therapy, physiotherapy or photo therapy and other such treatment prescribed by a Medical Practitioner
requiring in-patient hospitalisation.
4. If any injury during the period necessitate curative treatment beyond duration of this insurance, the Company’s
liability to pay benefits within the scope of this Policy, under this cover shall extend automatically for a further
period of 7 days insofar as it can be proved that transportation home is not possible. Assistance Service Provider
must be notified immediately as soon as it is known that Insured / Insured Person is unfit to return to home
town / home. If any new disease / illness/injury is contracted beyond duration of this Policy, treatment for the
same will not be covered.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
Page 9 of 101

Table Row: Sl. No. | BASE COVERS

Table Row: 1 | Emergency Accidental Hospitalization

Table Row: 2 | OPD Treatment

Table Row: 3 | Personal Accident Covers
a. Accidental Death
b. Permanent Total Disability (PTD)
c. Permanent Partial Disability (PPD)

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
b. Special Exclusions to Emergency Accidental Hospitalisation:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person for:
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
permanent residence. The question of what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance with accepted
standards of medical care.
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency treatment on account of
an insured event.
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery
in any form or manner unless medically required as part of treatment for accidents and burns).
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium,
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, long-
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences of either completed.
6. Any health check-ups or examinations or measures primarily carried out for diagnostic or investigative
reasons for any purpose other than treatment related to an Accident
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
2. OPD EMERGENCY MEDICAL EXPENSES:
a. Coverage:
Out-patient (OP) treatment in case of an emergency due to accidental injury only, upto the maximum sum insured as
mentioned on the policy schedule.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit will form part of Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions to OPD Emergency Medical Expenses:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person for:
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
permanent residence. The question of what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance with accepted
standards of medical care.
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency treatment on account of
an insured event.
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery
in any form or manner unless medically required as part of treatment for accidents and burns).
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium,
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, long-
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences of either completed.
Page 10 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
6. Any health check-ups or examinations or measures primarily carried out for diagnostic or investigative
reasons for any purpose other than treatment related to an Accident
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
3. PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVERS:
a. Coverage
The Policy shall pay the Insured/Insured Person or his/her nominee or legal representatives, as the case may be, for
accidental bodily injury (whilst on a trip covered by this Policy) solely and directly caused by accidental, violent,
external and visible means resulting in Accidental Death (AD) or Permanent Total Disablement (PTD) or Permanent
Partial Disablement (PPD) within twelve (12) calendar months of occurrence of such injury.
In case of the unfortunate accidental death of the Insured/Insured Person, the compensation shall be paid to the
nominee or legal representatives. The Sum Insured shall be the maximum liability of the Company under this benefit.
Subject to the above; the Company shall pay to the Insured/Insured Person, his/her nominee or legal
representatives, as the case may be, the sum or the sums as set forth in the Table of Benefits below:
Table of Benefits Percentage of Sum Insured
payable as compensation
1. Accident Death (AD) 100%
2. PTD – Total and irrecoverable loss of
i) Sight of both eyes or of the actual loss by physical separation of two entire hands or
two entire feet or one entire hand and one entire foot or of such loss of sight of one 100%
eye and such loss of one entire hand or one entire foot.
ii) Use of two hands or of two feet or of one hand and one foot or of such loss of sight 100%
of one eye and such loss of use of one hand or one foot
iii) Total Paralysis 100%
iv) Loss of all fingers and both thumbs OR loss of arm – at shoulder; between shoulder
and elbow; at and below elbow OR loss of leg – at hip; between knee and hip; below 100%
knee
For the purpose of items 2 i) above, physical separation of one entire hand shall mean separation at or above wrist
and/or of the foot at or above ankle respectively.
3. Permanent total and absolute disablement disabling the Insured/Insured Person
from engaging in any employment or occupation of any description whatsoever which 100%
he or she was capable of doing earlier
4. PPD - Total and irrecoverable loss of various parts as given below: Percentage of Sum Insured
The sight of one eye or the actual loss by physical separation of one entire hand or one 50%
entire foot.
Loss of Use of a hand or a foot without physical separation 50%
Loss of speech 50%
Loss of toes – all 20%
Page 11 of 101

Table Row: Table of Benefits | Percentage of Sum Insured
payable as compensation

Table Row: 1. Accident Death (AD) | 100%

Table Row: 2. PTD – Total and irrecoverable loss of | 

Table Row: i) Sight of both eyes or of the actual loss by physical separation of two entire hands or
two entire feet or one entire hand and one entire foot or of such loss of sight of one
eye and such loss of one entire hand or one entire foot. | 100%

Table Row: ii) Use of two hands or of two feet or of one hand and one foot or of such loss of sight
of one eye and such loss of use of one hand or one foot | 100%

Table Row: iii) Total Paralysis | 100%

Table Row: iv) Loss of all fingers and both thumbs OR loss of arm – at shoulder; between shoulder
and elbow; at and below elbow OR loss of leg – at hip; between knee and hip; below
knee | 100%

Table Row: For the purpose of items 2 i) above, physical separation of one entire hand shall mean separation at or above wrist
and/or of the foot at or above ankle respectively. | 

Table Row: 3. Permanent total and absolute disablement disabling the Insured/Insured Person
from engaging in any employment or occupation of any description whatsoever which
he or she was capable of doing earlier | 100%

Table Row: 4. PPD - Total and irrecoverable loss of various parts as given below: | Percentage of Sum Insured

Table Row: The sight of one eye or the actual loss by physical separation of one entire hand or one
entire foot. | 50%

Table Row: Loss of Use of a hand or a foot without physical separation | 50%

Table Row: Loss of speech | 50%

Table Row: Loss of toes – all | 20%

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Loss of toes great - both phalanges 5%
Loss of toes great - one phalanx 2%
Loss of toes other than great, if more than one toe lost: each 2%
Loss of hearing - both ears 75%
Loss of hearing - one ear 30%
Loss of four fingers and thumb of one hand 50%
Loss of four fingers of one hand 40%
Loss of thumb - both phalanges 25%
Loss of thumb – one phalanx 10%
Loss of index finger – three phalanges 15%
Loss of index finger – two phalanges 10%
Loss of index finger - one phalanx 5%
Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little finger – three phalanges 10%
Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little finger – two phalanges 7%
Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little finger - one phalanx 3%
Loss of metacarpals – first or second (additional) or third, fourth or fifth (additional) 3%
Any other permanent partial disablement Percentage as assessed by the
panel doctor of the Company
The disablement occurs within one year of accident

The disablement must be confirmed and claimed for prior to the expiry of a period of 3 months since occurrence of the

disablement
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Policy, the Company shall not be liable for compensation under more
than one of the points (1) to (4) in the Table of Benefits hereinabove, in the same period of disablement of the
Insured/Insured Person.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Personal Accident Covers:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in respect of the following:
1. Any existing physical disability.
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics, hallucinogens.
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning except where these arise
from an accident.
4. Any payment under this benefit whereby the Company's liability would exceed the sum payable in the
event of accidental death.
5. Any other claim after a claim for accidental death has been admitted by the Company and becomes
payable.
6. Any claim which arises out of an accident connected with the operation of an aircraft (Including Cabin
Crew) or which occurs during parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is flying as a Fare
Paying passenger in a multi-engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter company.
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Page 12 of 101

Table Row: Loss of toes great - both phalanges | 5%

Table Row: Loss of toes great - one phalanx | 2%

Table Row: Loss of toes other than great, if more than one toe lost: each | 2%

Table Row: Loss of hearing - both ears | 75%

Table Row: Loss of hearing - one ear | 30%

Table Row: Loss of four fingers and thumb of one hand | 50%

Table Row: Loss of four fingers of one hand | 40%

Table Row: Loss of thumb - both phalanges | 25%

Table Row: Loss of thumb – one phalanx | 10%

Table Row: Loss of index finger – three phalanges | 15%

Table Row: Loss of index finger – two phalanges | 10%

Table Row: Loss of index finger - one phalanx | 5%

Table Row: Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little finger – three phalanges | 10%

Table Row: Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little finger – two phalanges | 7%

Table Row: Loss of middle finger or ring finger or little finger - one phalanx | 3%

Table Row: Loss of metacarpals – first or second (additional) or third, fourth or fifth (additional) | 3%

Table Row: Any other permanent partial disablement | Percentage as assessed by the
panel doctor of the Company

Table Row: The disablement occurs within one year of accident

The disablement must be confirmed and claimed for prior to the expiry of a period of 3 months since occurrence of the

disablement | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Person from;
a. intentional self-injury, suicide, or attempted suicide.
b. whilst under the influence of intoxication, liquor or drugs.
c. arising or resulting from the insured/insured person committing any breach of law with criminal intent
or participating in an actual or attempted felony, riot, crime, misdemeanour or civil commotion.
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing,
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand gliding, mountaineering or rock climbing, potholing, abseiling,
deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless specifically covered and duly mentioned in the
Policy Schedule.
8. Any consequential loss or damage cost or expense of whatsoever nature.
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly caused by, contributed to or aggravated or prolonged
by childbirth, maternity or pregnancy or in consequence thereof, venereal disease or infirmity.
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist
activities.
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Personal Accident Covers:
1. In the event of partial loss or impairment of the function of one of the above parts of the body or senses,
the appropriate proportion of the percentage as stated in the “Table of Benefits” will be considered for
payment.
2. If the accident impairs a number of physical or mental functions, the degree of disablement given in the
Table of Benefits will be added together, but the amount payable shall not exceed 100% of the Sum
Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule.
3. If the accident affects parts of the body or senses whose loss or inability to function is not dealt with above,
the governing factor in determining the benefit amount in such a case will be the degree to which the
normal physical or mental capabilities are impaired, solely from a medical point of view, as ascertained by
a Medical Practitioner or a panel of doctor of the company or Assistance Service Provider.
4. In the event of permanent disablement, the Insured/Insured Person will be under obligation:
a. To have himself/herself examined by the Medical Practitioners appointed by the Company/Assistance
Service Provider and the Company will pay the costs thereof
b. To authorize Medical Practitioner providing treatment or giving expert opinion and any other authority
to supply the Company any information that may be required on the condition of the Insured/Insured
Person.
5. If the above obligations are not met with due to whatsoever reason, the Company shall be relieved of its
liability to compensate under this benefit.
6. The benefit applicable under this Section shall be in addition to the benefits applicable under optional
cover-Personal Accident - Common Carrier for Accidental Death and Permanent Total Disability, if opted.
4. GENERAL EXCLUSIONS:
(Applicable to all covers under the Policy)
In addition to the exclusions that are applicable for the specific covers of the Policy as mentioned in this Policy, the
following exclusions apply to covers/benefits under all Sections of the Policy
Page 13 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Without prejudice to anything contained in this Policy, the Company shall not be liable to make any payment in
respect of:
1. Any claim relating to events occurring before the commencement of the cover or otherwise outside of the
period of insurance.
2. Any Pre-existing Condition and / or any complication arising from it
a) This policy is not designed to provide an indemnity with respect to medical services, the need for which
arises out of a pre-existing condition as defined in the policy in normal course of treatment. However in
any of the threatening situation this exclusion shall not be applied and also that the cover will up to the
limit shown under Life threatening condition / situation as defined in this policy
3. Treatment if that is the sole reason or one of the reasons for the Insured/Insured Person’s temporary stay.
4. Any claim if the Insured/Insured Person: –
a. is travelling against the advice of a Medical Practitioner;
b. is receiving, or is on a waiting list to receive, specified medical treatment declared in the Medical
Practitioner's report or certificate;
c. has received terminal prognosis for a medical condition;
d. is taking part in a naval, military or air force operation.
5. Deductibles as specified in the Policy Schedule.
6. Diseases, illness and accidents that are results of war and warlike occurrence or invasion, acts of foreign
enemies, hostilities, civil war, rebellion, insurrection, civil commotion assuming the proportions of or
amounting to an uprising, military or usurped power, active participation in riots, confiscation or
nationalization or requisition of or destruction of or damage to property by or under the order of any
government or local authority.
7. Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies.
8. Any claim resulting or arising from or any consequential loss, directly caused by or contributed to or arising
from:
a. Ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste
from the combustion of nuclear fuel; or
b. The radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or
nuclear component thereof.
9. Any claim arising out of sporting activities in so far as they involve the training or participation in
competitions of professional or semi-professional sports persons, Adventure Sports unless declared
beforehand and necessary additional premium paid
10. No claim will be paid which arises from the insured Person engaging in Travel unless he or she travels as a
passenger on a carrier properly licensed to carry passengers. For the purpose of this exclusion, Traveller
means being in or on, or boarding a carrier for the purpose of travelling therein or alighting there from.
11. Any claim arising out of diseases, illnesses or accidents that the Insured/Insured Person has caused
intentionally or by committing a crime or as a result of drunkenness or addiction (drugs, alcohol).
12. Medical Expenses in respect of Experimental, investigational or unproven treatments or treatments which
are not consistent with or incidental to the diagnosis and treatment of the positive existence or presence of
any Illness for which confinement is required at a Hospital. Any Illness or treatment which is a result or a
consequence of undergoing such experimental or unproven treatment
13. Naturopathy treatment
14. No claims will be paid for losses arising directly from manual work or hazardous occupation, self-exposure
to peril or if engaging in any criminal or illegal act.
Page 14 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
15. Any claim arising out of any act of terrorism which means an act, including but not limited to the use of force
or violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of persons, whether acting alone or on
behalf of or in connection with any organization(s) or government(s), committed for political, religious,
ideological, or ethnic purposes or reasons including the intention to influence any government and/or to put
the public, or any section of the public, in fear. However, this exclusion does not apply to Optional Cover -
Hijack Distress Allowance.
16. Non-medical Expenses incurred during Hospitalisation. The list of such Non-medical Expenses is placed at
Annexure 3.
5. GENERAL CONDITIONS:
(Applicable to all covers under the Policy)
I. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO THE CONTRACT:
1. Deductible:
The deductible in respect of this Policy will be applicable for each and every claim separately and shall be of an
amount as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.
Deductible will be charged for each separate incident reported for claims payment, even though the claim may be
registered under the same benefit more than once.
2. Applicability of covers:
Of the covers indicated in this Policy Wording and Endorsements, coverage available to the Insured Person will be
indicated in the Policy Certificate along with Sum Insured and Deductibles.
3. Type of Trips Offered:
Policy shall be offered on Single Trip/ Annual Multi trip basis
a. Single Trip Policy:
Policies covering single trips can be issued upto single trip not exceeding 365 days.
b. Annual Multi trip Policy:
Policies covering Annual Multi Trips can be issued for annual period of one year covering multiple single
trips within the annual period of insurance with each and every single trip not exceeding a specified number
of days as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate
c. One-way Travel:
Policy is applicable for one-way travel also, with a condition for maximum duration of coverage limited to
specified number of days as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate
The Policy start date shall be on or before the trip start date.
4. Policy Extension:
a. Extension of the Period of Insurance of the Policy during the duration of the trip can be done only at the sole
discretion of the Company depending upon the risk factors.
b. If the Insured/Insured Person does not declare the full current facts or declare wrong facts while requesting
for extension of the Policy, any extension of such a Policy if granted shall be deemed to be invalid. No refund
Page 15 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
of premium will be given in case of extensions so invalidated. The Company will also not be liable to pay any
claim filed under the extended Policy.
c. The premium payable for the extension of the Policy during the trip duration shall be the premium payable
for the overall trip duration (including the extension) less the initial premium already paid.
d. Provided further that for an Insured, the maximum trip duration (including the extension as provided earlier)
shall not exceed 365 days in total.
5. Premium Chargeable:
The premium charged shall be based on the number of man days insured in each category at the
commencement of the Policy Period, as declared by the Insured Person. Depending on the actual number of
man days covered in the Policy Period in each category as at the last day of such Policy period, if the premium
calculated on the actual number of man days shall differ from the premium charged at the commencement
of the Policy, then such difference shall be paid to the Company or refunded by the Company as the case may be.
6. Disclosure of Information:
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the event of
misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the Insured/Insured Person.
(Explanation: “Material facts” for the purpose of this policy shall mean all relevant information sought by the
company in the proposal form and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the
context of underwriting the risk)
II. CONDITIONS APPLICABLE DURING THE CONTRACT
7. Obligations of the Insured/ Insured Person:
a) Insured/ Insured Person shall provide to the Company or the Assistance Service Provider appointed by the
Company, on demand any information that is required to determine the occurrence of the insurable event or
the Company's liability to pay the benefits.
b) If requested to do so by the Company or the Assistance Service Provider appointed by the Company, the
Insured/ Insured Person is obliged to undergo a medical examination by a Medical Practitioner designated by
the Assistance Service Provider. For the purpose of settlement of claims only. The cost towards the medical
examination shall be borne by the Company.
c) The Company or the Assistance Service Provider appointed by the Company is authorized to take all measures
which includes the Insured/ Insured Person's transportation back to his/her usual place of residence in India.
The transportation of the Insured/ Insured person back to his/her usual place of residence in India shall be done
only on agreement and confirmation from the attending medical practitioner that the Insured/ Insured Person
is capable of being transported to his/her usual place of residence in India with consent from Insured/Insured
Persons.
d) The Company shall be released from any obligation to pay benefits under this Policy, if any, of the
aforementioned obligations are breached by the Insured/ Insured Person.
8. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability:
The terms and Conditions of the policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company to make any
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy.
9. Geography:
This Policy applies to incidents anywhere in India while travelling.
Page 16 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
10. No constructive Notice:
Any knowledge or information of any circumstance or condition in connection with the Insured Person in
possession of any official of the Company shall not be notice to or be held to bind or prejudicially affect the
Company notwithstanding subsequent acceptance of any premium.
11. Multiple Claims:
In the event a claim is payable in multiple sections under this policy the Company’s liability will be restricted to the
highest amount payable per section. This will not apply to the following sections: Accidental Death (AD);
Permanent Total Disability (PTD); Permanent Partial Disablement (PPD)
12. Nomination
The Insured is required at the inception of the policy to make a nomination for the purpose of payment of claims
under the policy in the event of death of the Insured. Any change of nomination shall be communicated to the
company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an endorsement on the policy is made. In the
event of death of the Insured, the Company will pay the nominee (as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)) and in case there is no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal
representatives of the Insured whose discharge shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under
the policy.
13. Fraud
If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or declaration is
made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are used by the insured person or anyone
acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium
paid shall be forfeited.
Any amount already paid against claims made under this policy but which are found fraudulent later shall be
repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who has made that particular claim, who shall be jointly and severally
liable for such repayment to the insurer.
For the purpose of this clause, the expression “fraud” means any of the following acts committed by the insured
person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of the insured person, with intent
to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an insurance policy:
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the insured person does not believe
to be true;
b) the active concealment of a fact by the insured person having knowledge or belief of the fact;
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of Fraud, if the
insured person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best of his knowledge and there
was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such misstatement of or suppression of material fact
are within the knowledge of the insurer.
III. CONDITIONS WHEN A CLAIM ARISES
Page 17 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
14. Claims Procedure:
1. In the event of an accident or sudden illness which is likely to give rise to a claim under this Policy, the Insured
Person shall immediately contact the Assistance Service Provider giving details of the Policy issued to him/her.
The details of phone numbers and Helpline are given in the Schedule/Certificate attached to this Policy.
2. The Insured Person or his representative shall provide to the Assistance Service Provider maximum information
about the illness, accident or occurrence as is available, as well as other information such as the Policy number
etc. Assistance Service Provider shall assist the Insured Person in getting admitted in to a hospital / getting
treatment from a Medical Practitioner as an outpatient.
3. Where it is not possible to make an emergency call before consulting a Medical Practitioner or going into
hospital, the Insured Person shall contact the Assistance Service Provider as soon as possible. In either case,
when being admitted as a patient, the Insured Person shall inform the Medical Practitioner or personnel at the
hospital, the details of his/her policy coverage and shall state the details of the Assistance Service Provider and
request them to contact them.
4. All necessary claim documents should be furnished to the Company/ Assistance Service Provider by the policy
holder/insured to make a claim. However, claims filed even beyond such period should be considered if there
are valid reasons of any delay.
5. If proper intimation is given, the Assistance Service Provider shall give a cashless authorisation to the hospital /
other providers for the costs of hospitalization under Scope of Coverage under the Policy. These costs will be
settled directly by the Assistance Service Provider on behalf of and for the account of the Company. The Insured
Person shall release Medical Practitioners/hospital contacted by Assistance Service Provider from their duty not
to disclose information about his/her case.
6. In such cases, the Insured Person before his discharge from the Hospital, shall fill up and sign the claim form and
hand over the same to the Hospital authorities to be handed over to Assistance Service Provider. Please send
the duly signed claim form along with all the documents to designated TPA within 30 days of the occurrence of
the Incident. However, claims filed even beyond such period should be considered if there are valid reasons of
any delay.
7. Where no information is given to Assistance Service Provider and the payment for hospital treatment /
outpatient treatment has been made by the Insured Person, the reasons therefore shall have to be given by the
Insured Person along with the claim form giving details of treatment and bills for expenditure to the Company
or Assistance Service Provider. After examining the facts and establishing the liability, in consultation and with
the approval of the Company, Assistance Service Provider will reimburse to the Insured Person the costs
incurred within the Scope of Coverage of the Policy on behalf of and for the account of the Company.
8. Besides where the Insured Person and Assistance Service Provider agree that even though the procedure under
Claims Procedure is complied with, the claim should be settled on a reimbursement basis (in consultation and
with the approval of the Company), then it will be done so accordingly.
Page 18 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
9. The Company shall only be liable to indemnify if, besides proof of insurance cover, the documentary proofs
required as per the claims procedure stated in the Policy, is also submitted.
10. The total loss of checked- in baggage caused by the Common Carrier (airlines) must be reported to the Common
Carriers and a Property Irregularity Report (P.I.R) shall be obtained from them. Original report together with the
ticket(s), baggage tag(s) and the claim form are to be submitted in support of a claim by the Insured Person to
the Company or Assistance Service Provider.
11. Loss of Gadgets must be reported to the police authorities within 24 hours of discovery of such loss and an
official report obtained from the Police authorities. The original official report of the Police authorities should
also be submitted along with the claim form to the Company or Assistance Service Provider.
12. Failure to comply with the claims procedure stated above in respect of Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage and,
Gadgets, may prejudice the claim of the Insured Person.
13. Claims for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Company or Assistance Service Provider within one month
after completion of the treatment or transportation home. In the event of accidental death, the same shall be
submitted within one month after transportation of mortal remains/burial.
14. The Insured Person shall provide Assistance Service Provider / the Company on demand with any information
that is required to determine the occurrence of the insured event or the scope of the Company's liability. In
particular, at the request of Assistance Service Provider / the Company proof shall be furnished of the actual
commencement of the trip abroad.
15. If requested to do so by Assistance Service Provider / the Company, the Insured Person shall authorise
Assistance Service Provider / the Company to obtain all the information considered necessary from third parties
(Medical Practitioners, dentists, alternative practitioners, medical institutions of any kind, insurance carriers,
health or pension offices) and release these parties from their obligation not to disclose information.
16. If requested to do so by Assistance Service Provider / the Company, the Insured Person is obliged to undergo a
medical examination by a Medical Practitioner designated by Assistance Service Provider / the Company.
17. In case of any claim under Personal Liability, proof of judicial decision rendered by a Court of Law may be
required.
18. In case of any accident giving rise to a claim under the Personal Accident section of the Policy, the Insured
Person, his/her nominee or legal representatives, as the case may be, shall provide complete information and
details about the Insured Person in the claim form along with the claim documents listed in the policy wordings
to the Company or Assistance Service Provider.
19. The Insured/ Insured Person shall provide the Company with the details of the trip and other information as
may be required by the Company from time to time.
20. In case a covered insured event, as described in the Benefit Section, occurs before date of purchase of this policy
or advance warning is issued by the relevant authorities of the likelihood of such an event happening before
date of purchase of this policy the Company shall not be liable to pay a claim.
Page 19 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
15. Claim Settlement:
1. Reimbursement of claims shall be in India, in Indian Rupees.
2. We shall settle claims, including its rejection, within thirty days of the receipt of last `necessary’ document.
3. However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of the insurer, it shall
initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case not later than 30 days from the date of
receipt of last necessary document. In such cases, Insurer shall settle the claim within 45 days from the date
of receipt of last necessary document.
4. In case of delay in the payment, the Company shall be liable to pay penal interest at a rate which is 2%
above the Bank rate prevalent at the beginning of the financial year in which the claim is reviewed.
16. Claim Documentation:
Claim documents as detailed in Annexure II – Claim Documentation is to be submitted along with the copy of
Policy Certificate and duly filled and signed claim form by the Insured Person or Nominee or Legal heir.
 KYC of the Insured for other than death claim and KYC of the nominee / legal heir in case of death claim
 Account details with proof for NEFT of the Insured for other than death claim and KYC of the nominee/legal
heir in case of death claim i.e. cancelled cheque, passbook copy
17. Transfer and Set-off of Claims:
a) If the Insured/ Insured Person have any outstanding claims against third parties, such claims shall be
transferred in writing to the Company up to the amount for which the reimbursement of costs is made by
the Company in accordance with the terms hereunder.
b) In so far as an Insured/ Insured Person receives compensation for costs he/she has incurred either from third
parties liable for damages or as a result of other legal circumstances, the Company shall be entitled to set
off this compensation against the insurance benefits payable.
c) Claims to the insurance benefits may be neither pledged nor transferred by the Insured/ Insured Person.
Transfer and Set-off of Claims shall not be applicable to any of the medical sections under Emergency Medical
Expenses, Emergency Medical Evacuation, Repatriation of Mortal Remains, Personal Accident, Accidental
Death and Permanent Total Disablement – Common carrier, Accidental Dental Treatment, Daily Allowance
in case of hospitalization
18. Right to inspect:
If required by the Company, an agent/representative of the Company including a loss assessor or a Surveyor
appointed in that behalf shall in case of any loss or any circumstances that have given rise to a claim to the
Insured Person be permitted at all reasonable times to examine into the circumstances of such loss. The Insured
Person shall on being required so to do by the Company produce all relevant documents relating to or containing
reference relating to the loss or such circumstance in his possession including presenting himself for
examination and furnish copies of or extracts from such of them as may be required by the Company so far as
they relate to such claims or will in any way assist the Company to ascertain the correctness thereof or the
liability of the Company under this Policy.
19. Electronic Transaction:
The Insured Person agrees to adhere to and comply with all such terms and conditions as the Company may
prescribe from time to time and hereby agrees and confirms that all transactions effected by or through facilities
for conducting remote transactions including the internet, world wide web, Electronic data interchange, call
centres, teleservice operations (whether voice, video, data or combination thereof) or by means of electronic,
Page 20 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
computer, automated machines network or through other means of telecommunication established by or on
behalf of the Company for and in respect of the Policy or its terms or the Company’s other products and services,
shall constitute legally binding and valid transactions when done in adherence to and in compliance with the
Company’s terms and conditions for such facilities, as may be prescribed from time to time. However, the terms
of this condition shall not override provisions of any law(s) or statutory regulations including provisions of IRDAI
regulations for protection of policyholder’s interests. All conditions of section 41 prescribed necessary
disclosures on terms, conditions and major exclusions shall be made known to the Insured Person; Any voice
transaction shall be duly recorded, with the consent of the Insured Person and the recordings shall be
maintained by or on behalf of the Company and shall be made available to the Insured Person for subsequent
validation/confirmation of the Insured Person, if so required.
20. Subrogation:
In the event of payment under this Policy, the Company shall be subrogated to all the Insured /Insured Person's
rights or recovery thereof against any person or Organisation, and the Insured/Insured Person shall execute and
deliver instruments and papers necessary to secure such rights. The Insured/Insured Person and any claimant
under this Policy shall at the expense of the Company do and concur in doing and permit to be done, all such
acts and things as may be necessary or required by the Company, before or after Insured /Insured Person's
indemnification, in enforcing or endorsing any rights or remedies, or of obtaining relief or indemnity, to which
the Company shall be or would become entitled or subrogated. However, this condition shall not be applicable
to Emergency Medical Expenses, Emergency Medical Evacuation, Repatriation of Mortal Remains, Dental
Treatment Expenses, Personal Accident, Accidental Death and Permanent Total Disability – Common Carrier,
Daily allowance in case of Hospitalization Sections.
21. Notice of charge:
The Company shall not be bound to take notice or be affected by any notice of any trust, charge, lien, assignment
or other dealing with or relating to this Policy, but the payment by the Company to the Insured /Insured Person
or his/her nominees or the legal representative, as the case may be, of any compensation or benefit under the
Policy shall in all cases be an effectual discharge to the Company.
IV. CONDITIONS FOR RENEWAL OF THE CONTRACT
22. Renewal:
The Company shall give notice for renewal of the Annual Multi Trip policies and accept renewal premium in all
cases except in case of fraud, misrepresentation or non-cooperation of the Policy Holder / Insured Person in
implementing the terms and conditions of this Policy or if the renewal of Policy poses a moral hazard. Every
renewal premium (which shall be paid and accepted in respect of this Policy) shall be so paid and accepted upon
the distinct understanding that no alteration has taken place in the facts contained in the declaration herein
before mentioned and that nothing is known to the Insured / Insured Person that may result to enhance the risk
of the Company. No renewal receipt shall be valid unless it is on the printed form of the Company and signed
by an authorized official of the Company.
This Policy provides 30 days Grace Period for renewing the Policy. However, Coverage will not be available
during the grace period.
23. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the policy including the Premium Rates:
Page 21 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
The company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the policy including the premium
rates. The insured person shall be notified three months before the changes are effected.
24. Policy Withdrawal and Migration:
a. In the likelihood of this policy being withdrawn in future, the Company will inform the same to the Policy
Holder / Insured at least 3 months prior to expiry of the policy.
b. Policy Holder/Insured will have the option to migrate to other plan under similar travel insurance policy, if
available with the Company, at the time of renewal (in case of Annual policies), provided the policy has
been maintained without a break.
25. Enhancement of Sum Insured:
During currency of the policy, no change of plan or Sum Insured is allowed.
26. Cancellation:
In case of Annual Policies, the Company may at any time, cancel this Policy, by giving 30 days notice in writing
by Registered Post Acknowledgment Due to the Policy Holder/Insured Person at his last known address The
Company shall exercise its right to cancel only in case of fraud, mis-representation, non-disclosure of material
facts. In such cases, policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company as per
the disclosure to information norm. The Company shall exercise its right to cancel the policy on grounds of non-
cooperation of the Policy Holder/ Insured Person in implementing the terms and conditions of this Policy. In
such cases, Insurer shall be liable to repay premium as specified in the below mentioned table subject to no
claims.
The Policy Holder/Insured Person may also give 30 days notice in writing, to the Company, for the cancellation
of this Policy, in which case the Company shall from the date of receipt of notice cancel the Policy and retain
the premium for the period this Policy has been in force at the Company's short period scales, provided that, no
refund of premium shall be made if any claim has been made under this Policy by or on behalf of the Insured
Person up to the date of cancellation of this Policy.
Short Period Scale
Policy Period Up to Rate Of Premium to be retained
Up to 15% of Policy Period 25% of premium paid
Up to 25% of Policy Period 50% of premium paid
Up to 50% of Policy Period 75% of premium paid
Exceeding 50% of Policy Period 100% of premium paid
In case of single trip policies, termination of the Policy at a date earlier than the end date can be done only if
the Insured Person returns back to his/her usual town of residence earlier than the end date of the Period of
Insurance of the Policy. Refund of premium for the days between the return to the usual town of residence and
the end date of the Period of Insurance as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate will only be given
if the same are a minimum of 10 days. Premium refunded will be equal to the amount of premium to be paid
for the original Policy duration minus the premium to be paid by taking the return date as the new end date of
Page 22 of 101

Table Row:  | Short Period Scale |  |  |  | 

Table Row:  | Policy Period Up to |  |  | Rate Of Premium to be retained | 

Table Row: Up to 15% of Policy Period |  |  | 25% of premium paid |  | 

Table Row: Up to 25% of Policy Period |  |  | 50% of premium paid |  | 

Table Row: Up to 50% of Policy Period |  |  | 75% of premium paid |  | 

Table Row: Exceeding 50% of Policy Period |  |  | 100% of premium paid |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Period of Insurance, provided that, no refund of premium shall be made if any claim has been made under this
Policy by or on behalf of the Insured/Insured Person.
27. Policy Disputes:
The parties to this Policy expressly agree that the laws of the Republic of India shall govern the validity,
construction, interpretation and effect of this Policy. Any dispute concerning the interpretation of the terms and
conditions, limitations and/or exclusions contained herein is understood and agreed to by both the insured and
the Company to be subject to Indian law and in Indian Court.
28. Arbitration:
a. Any dispute or difference between the Insurer and the Insured Person or the Policyholder will be resolved in
accordance with Arbitration & Conciliation Act 1996 or any modification or amendment of it. The arbitration
proceedings shall be conducted in the English language.
b. It is agreed as a condition precedent to any right of action or suit on this Policy that a final arbitration award
shall be first obtained.
c. If this arbitration clause is held to be invalid in whole or in part, then all disputes shall be referred to the
exclusive jurisdiction of Chennai Courts.
6.GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL MECHANISM
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the company through
Website : www.cholainsurance.com
Toll free : 1800 208 9100
E-Mail : customercare@cholams.murugappa.com
Fax : 044 -4044 5550
Courier : Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Limited, Customer services, Head
Office Dare House 2nd floor, No 2 N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai 600 001
Insured person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the company’s branches with the details of grievance.
If insured person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods, insured person
may contact the grievance officer at GRO@cholams.murugappa.com
For details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link www.cholainsurance.com
If any Grievances / issues on Health insurance related claims pertaining to Senior Citizens, Insured can register the
complaint / grievance in ‘Senior Citizen Channel’ which shall be processed on Fast Track Basis by dedicated
personnel.
If You have not received any reply from us within 3 days from the date of the lodgement of complaint or if You are
not satisfied with the reply of the Company, you can contact the IRDA Grievance Call Centre at the toll free no.
155255 or email at complaints@irda.gov.in for registering the grievance or the nearest Insurance Ombudsman
Office. For Ombudsman list please visit https://www.cioins.co.in/ombudsman.html
Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management system https://igms.irda.gov.in/
Areas of Jurisdiction Office of the Insurance Ombudsman
Page 23 of 101

Table Row: Areas of Jurisdiction | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Gujarat, UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd floor, Ambica
Diu House, Near C.U. Shah College, 5, Navyug Colony, Ashram
Road, Ahmedabad – 380014
Tel.: 079-27546150/27546139, Fax: 079-27546142, Email:
bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in
Karnataka Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevansoudha
Building, PID No.57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th
Main Road, JP Nagar, 1st Phase, Bengaluru 560078. Tel.:
080-26652048/26652049, Email:
bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in
Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janakvihar Complex,
2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New
Market, Bhopal – 462003. Tel.: 0755-2769201/2769202,
Fax.: 0755-2769203, Email.:
bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in
Odisha Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Foresh Partk,
Bhubhaneshwar – 750009. Tel.: 0674-2596461/2586455.
Fax.: 0674-2596429. Email.:
bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in
Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No.101, 102 &
Kashmir, UT of Chandigarh 103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 17-D, Chandigarh –
160017. Tel.: 0172-2706196/2706468. Fax.: 0172-
2708274, Email.: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in
Tamilnadu, UT-Pondicherry Town and Karaikal Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Fatima Akhtar Court,
(which are part of UT of Pondicherry) 4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, Teynampet, Chennai 600 018.
Tel. 044 – 24333668/24335284. Fax. 044-24333664,
Email.: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in
Delhi Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal
Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110002. Tel.
011-23239633/23237532, Fax.011-23230858, Email.:
bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in
Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanNivesh, 5th
Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati –
781001 (ASSAM). Tel.: 0361-2132204/2132205, Fax.:
0361-2732937, Email.: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in
Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of Yanam-a part Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6-2-46, 1st Floor,
of the UT of Pondicherry “Moin court”, Lane Opp., Saleem Function Palace, A.C.
Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad – 500004. Tel.: 040-
65504123/23312122, Fax.: 040-23376599, Email.:
bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in
Rajasthan Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,JeevanNidhi – II Bldg,
Gr. Fllor, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur – 302005. Tel.: 0141-
2740363, Email.: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in
Kerala, UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b) Mahe-a part of UT Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat
of Pondicherry Bldg., Opp. Cohin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam –
Page 24 of 101

Table Row: Gujarat, UT of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and
Diu | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd floor, Ambica
House, Near C.U. Shah College, 5, Navyug Colony, Ashram
Road, Ahmedabad – 380014
Tel.: 079-27546150/27546139, Fax: 079-27546142, Email:
bimalokpal.ahmedabad@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Karnataka | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jeevansoudha
Building, PID No.57-27-N-19, Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th
Main Road, JP Nagar, 1st Phase, Bengaluru 560078. Tel.:
080-26652048/26652049, Email:
bimalokpal.bengaluru@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Janakvihar Complex,
2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New
Market, Bhopal – 462003. Tel.: 0755-2769201/2769202,
Fax.: 0755-2769203, Email.:
bimalokpal.bhopal@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Odisha | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, Foresh Partk,
Bhubhaneshwar – 750009. Tel.: 0674-2596461/2586455.
Fax.: 0674-2596429. Email.:
bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and
Kashmir, UT of Chandigarh | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, S.C.O. No.101, 102 &
103, 2nd Floor, Batra Building, Sector 17-D, Chandigarh –
160017. Tel.: 0172-2706196/2706468. Fax.: 0172-
2708274, Email.: bimalokpal.chandigarh@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Tamilnadu, UT-Pondicherry Town and Karaikal
(which are part of UT of Pondicherry) | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,Fatima Akhtar Court,
4th Floor, 453, Anna Salai, Teynampet, Chennai 600 018.
Tel. 044 – 24333668/24335284. Fax. 044-24333664,
Email.: bimalokpal.chennai@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Delhi | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2/2 A, Universal
Insurance Building, Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi – 110002. Tel.
011-23239633/23237532, Fax.011-23230858, Email.:
bimalokpal.delhi@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal
Pradesh, Nagaland and Tripura | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanNivesh, 5th
Floor, Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road, Guwahati –
781001 (ASSAM). Tel.: 0361-2132204/2132205, Fax.:
0361-2732937, Email.: bimalokpal.guwahati@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and UT of Yanam-a part
of the UT of Pondicherry | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6-2-46, 1st Floor,
“Moin court”, Lane Opp., Saleem Function Palace, A.C.
Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad – 500004. Tel.: 040-
65504123/23312122, Fax.: 040-23376599, Email.:
bimalokpal.hyderabad@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Rajasthan | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,JeevanNidhi – II Bldg,
Gr. Fllor, Bhawani Singh Marg, Jaipur – 302005. Tel.: 0141-
2740363, Email.: Bimalokpal.jaipur@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Kerala, UT of (a) Lakshadweep, (b) Mahe-a part of UT
of Pondicherry | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 2nd Floor, Pulinat
Bldg., Opp. Cohin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam –

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
682015, Tel.: 0484-2358759/2359338, Fax.: 0484-
2359336, Email.: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in
West Bengal, UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan Bldg,
Sikkim Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, Kolkata – 700072. Tel.
033-22124339/22124340. Fax. 033-22124341, Email.:
bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh, Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor,
Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Jeevanbhawan, Phase-II, Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur, Lucknow – 226001. Tel.: 0522-2231330/2231331. Fax.:
Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao, 0522-2331310. Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli,
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi,
Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur,
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh,
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur,
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar
Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevanseva
Mumbai & Thane Annexe, S.V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai – 400054. Tel.:
022-26106552/26106960. Fax: 022-26106052. Email:
bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in
State of Uttaranchal and the following districts of Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Bhagwansahai
Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor, Palace, 4th floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt:
Baudam, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri, gautambhuddh Nagar, U.P – 201301. Tel.: 0120-
Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, 2514250/2514251/2514253. Email.:
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad, bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi,
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj,
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar,
Saharanpur,
Bihar, Jharkhand Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Fllor, Kalpana
Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna
800006, Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in
Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanDarshan Bldg,
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region 3rd floor, C.T.S. No.s 195 to198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan
Peth, Pune-411030 Tel: 020-32341320, Email:
bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in
Page 25 of 101

Table Row:  | 682015, Tel.: 0484-2358759/2359338, Fax.: 0484-
2359336, Email.: bimalokpal.ernakulam@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: West Bengal, UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands,
Sikkim | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Hindustan Bldg,
Annexe, 4th Floor, 4, C.R. Avenue, Kolkata – 700072. Tel.
033-22124339/22124340. Fax. 033-22124341, Email.:
bimalokpal.kolkata@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Districts of Uttar Pradesh, Laitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba,
Hamirpur, Banda, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur,
Sonbhabdra, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,
Varanasi, Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao,
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki, Raebareli,
Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi, Kaushambi,
Balrampur, Basti, Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur,
Maharajgang, Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh,
Kushinagar, Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur,
Chandauli, Ballia, Sidharathnagar | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 6th Floor,
Jeevanbhawan, Phase-II, Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Lucknow – 226001. Tel.: 0522-2231330/2231331. Fax.:
0522-2331310. Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Goa, Mumbai Metropolitan Region excluding Navi
Mumbai & Thane | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 3rd Floor, Jeevanseva
Annexe, S.V. Road, Santacruz (W), Mumbai – 400054. Tel.:
022-26106552/26106960. Fax: 022-26106052. Email:
bimalokpal.mumbai@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: State of Uttaranchal and the following districts of
Uttar Pradesh: Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor,
Baudam, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj, Mainpuri,
Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar,
Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah, Farrukhabad, Firozbad,
Gautambodhanagar, Ghaziabad, Hardoi,
Shahjahanpur, Hapur, Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj,
Sambhal, Amroha, Hathras, Kanshiramnagar,
Saharanpur, | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Bhagwansahai
Palace, 4th floor, Main Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt:
gautambhuddh Nagar, U.P – 201301. Tel.: 0120-
2514250/2514251/2514253. Email.:
bimalokpal.noida@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Bihar, Jharkhand | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 1st Fllor, Kalpana
Arcade Building, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur, Patna
800006, Email: bimalokpal.patna@ecoi.co.in

Table Row: Maharashtra, Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region | Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, JeevanDarshan Bldg,
3rd floor, C.T.S. No.s 195 to198, N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan
Peth, Pune-411030 Tel: 020-32341320, Email:
bimalokpal.pune@ecoi.co.in

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
7. COVERAGE - OPTIONAL COVERS
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Policy, In consideration of payment of additional
premium, the policy is extended to cover the optional covers listed below upto the Sum Insured’s shown within the
Policy Schedule/Certificate.
Endorsement no. Optional Covers (on payment of additional premium)
1 Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease
2 Emergency Medical Evacuation & Repatriation of Mortal remains
3 Pre existing condition in Life Threatening Situation
4 Personal Accident Covers-Common Carrier
5 Dental Treatment Expenses
6 Daily Allowance in case of Hospitalization
7 Daily Allowance in case of Non - Hospitalization
8 Compassionate Visit
9 Hijack Distress Allowance (Airways)
10 Child Escort
11 Total Loss of checked in Baggage (Airways)
11A Total Loss of checked in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways)
12 Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways)
12A Delay of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways)
13 Trip Cancellation
13A Trip Cancellation on Benefit basis
14 Trip Interruption
14A Trip Interruption on Benefit basis
15 Missed Connection (Airways)
15A Missed Connection on Benefit basis (Airways)
16 Trip Delay (Airways)
16A Trip Delay on Benefit basis (Airways)
17 Emergency accommodation due to Trip Delay (Airways)
18 Flight Delay (Airlines)
18A Flight Delay (Airlines) on Benefit basis
19 Over Booked-Common Carrier (Airways)
19A Over Booked-Common Carrier on Benefit basis (Airways)
20 Bounced Hotel booking
21 Travel Inconvenience
21 Travel Inconvenience on Benefit basis
22 Travel Service Supplier Insolvency
23 Car Rental Excess Insurance
24 Personal Liability
25 Legal expenses
26 Home Burglary Insurance (Contents)
27 Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
28 Financial Emergency Assistance
Page 26 of 101

Table Row: Endorsement no. | Optional Covers (on payment of additional premium)

Table Row: 1 | Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease

Table Row: 2 | Emergency Medical Evacuation & Repatriation of Mortal remains

Table Row: 3 | Pre existing condition in Life Threatening Situation

Table Row: 4 | Personal Accident Covers-Common Carrier

Table Row: 5 | Dental Treatment Expenses

Table Row: 6 | Daily Allowance in case of Hospitalization

Table Row: 7 | Daily Allowance in case of Non - Hospitalization

Table Row: 8 | Compassionate Visit

Table Row: 9 | Hijack Distress Allowance (Airways)

Table Row: 10 | Child Escort

Table Row: 11 | Total Loss of checked in Baggage (Airways)

Table Row: 11A | Total Loss of checked in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways)

Table Row: 12 | Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways)

Table Row: 12A | Delay of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways)

Table Row: 13 | Trip Cancellation

Table Row: 13A | Trip Cancellation on Benefit basis

Table Row: 14 | Trip Interruption

Table Row: 14A | Trip Interruption on Benefit basis

Table Row: 15 | Missed Connection (Airways)

Table Row: 15A | Missed Connection on Benefit basis (Airways)

Table Row: 16 | Trip Delay (Airways)

Table Row: 16A | Trip Delay on Benefit basis (Airways)

Table Row: 17 | Emergency accommodation due to Trip Delay (Airways)

Table Row: 18 | Flight Delay (Airlines)

Table Row: 18A | Flight Delay (Airlines) on Benefit basis

Table Row: 19 | Over Booked-Common Carrier (Airways)

Table Row: 19A | Over Booked-Common Carrier on Benefit basis (Airways)

Table Row: 20 | Bounced Hotel booking

Table Row: 21 | Travel Inconvenience

Table Row: 21 | Travel Inconvenience on Benefit basis

Table Row: 22 | Travel Service Supplier Insolvency

Table Row: 23 | Car Rental Excess Insurance

Table Row: 24 | Personal Liability

Table Row: 25 | Legal expenses

Table Row: 26 | Home Burglary Insurance (Contents)

Table Row: 27 | Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy

Table Row: 28 | Financial Emergency Assistance

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
28A Financial Emergency Assistance on Benefit basis
29 Pet Care
30 Sports Equipment cover
31 Adventure Sports
32 Cruise cover
33 Debit / Credit Card – Fraud
34 Loss of Gadgets
35 Alternate Employee/Substitute Employee Expenses
36 Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airline)
37 Travel Loan Secure
38 Mobility Aids Allowance
39 Travel with Pet cover
40 Missed Departure
40A Missed Departure on Benefit basis
41 Flight Diversion & Cancellation
41A Flight Diversion & Cancellation on Benefit basis
42 Baggage Delay in Common carrier
42A Baggage Delay in Common carrier on Benefit basis
43 Baggage Loss in Common carrier
43A Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis (Airways)
44 Loss of baggage and Personal Belongings
45 Terrorism cover
46 Key Replacement
47 Loss of Documents
48 Change Fee Coverage
49 Cyber Security
50 Identity Theft
51 Carrier Cancellation
51A Carrier Cancellation on Benefit basis
52 Digital Camera Insurance
53 All Risk Cancellation
54 Automatic Extension for 7 Days
Endorsement no. 1. EMERGENCY MEDICAL EXPENSES-ILLNESS/DISEASES:
a. Coverage:
The policy shall reimburse to the insured the Reasonable and Customary Charges for Emergency Medical Expenses
incurred in the Republic of India by insured for immediate medical services as an in-patient due to any covered illness
or disease contracted by an insured and which does not relate to his / her past medical history up to the maximum
Sum Insured and for policy period as stated in the policy schedule. The treatment shall cover the following.
1. In-patient treatment in a local hospital at the place where the Insured is staying at the time of the event;
2. X-ray, diagnostic tests and all reasonable costs towards diagnostic methods and treatment during
hospitalisation
Page 27 of 101

Table Row: 28A | Financial Emergency Assistance on Benefit basis

Table Row: 29 | Pet Care

Table Row: 30 | Sports Equipment cover

Table Row: 31 | Adventure Sports

Table Row: 32 | Cruise cover

Table Row: 33 | Debit / Credit Card – Fraud

Table Row: 34 | Loss of Gadgets

Table Row: 35 | Alternate Employee/Substitute Employee Expenses

Table Row: 36 | Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airline)

Table Row: 37 | Travel Loan Secure

Table Row: 38 | Mobility Aids Allowance

Table Row: 39 | Travel with Pet cover

Table Row: 40 | Missed Departure

Table Row: 40A | Missed Departure on Benefit basis

Table Row: 41 | Flight Diversion & Cancellation

Table Row: 41A | Flight Diversion & Cancellation on Benefit basis

Table Row: 42 | Baggage Delay in Common carrier

Table Row: 42A | Baggage Delay in Common carrier on Benefit basis

Table Row: 43 | Baggage Loss in Common carrier

Table Row: 43A | Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis (Airways)

Table Row: 44 | Loss of baggage and Personal Belongings

Table Row: 45 | Terrorism cover

Table Row: 46 | Key Replacement

Table Row: 47 | Loss of Documents

Table Row: 48 | Change Fee Coverage

Table Row: 49 | Cyber Security

Table Row: 50 | Identity Theft

Table Row: 51 | Carrier Cancellation

Table Row: 51A | Carrier Cancellation on Benefit basis

Table Row: 52 | Digital Camera Insurance

Table Row: 53 | All Risk Cancellation

Table Row: 54 | Automatic Extension for 7 Days

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
3. Radiotherapy, heat therapy, physiotherapy or photo therapy and other such treatment prescribed by a
Medical Practitioner requiring in-patient hospitalisation;
4. If any disease/ illness during the period necessitate curative treatment beyond duration of this insurance,
the Company’s liability to pay benefits within the scope of this Policy under this cover shall extend
automatically for a further period of 7 days insofar as it can be proved that transportation home is not
possible. Assistance Service Provider must be notified immediately as soon as it is known that Insured /
Insured Person is unfit to return to home town /home. If any new disease / illness/injury is contracted
beyond duration of this Policy, treatment for the same will not be covered.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions to Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness/Diseases:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person for:
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
permanent residence. The question of what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance with accepted
standards of medical care.
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency treatment on account of
an insured event.
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery
in any form or manner unless medically required as part of treatment for accidents and burns).
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium,
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, long-
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences of either completed.
6. Any health check-ups or examinations or measures primarily carried out for diagnostic or investigative
reasons for any purpose other than treatment related to an Accident
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
Endorsement no. 2 – EMERGENCY MEDICAL EVACUATION & REPATRIATION OF MORTAL REMAINS:
a. Coverage
i. Emergency Medical Evacuation:
The Policy shall reimburse reasonable transportation charges of the Insured Person during the policy period due
to an emergency accident arising out of other than pre-existing diseases and if such transportation has been
prescribed by the Medical Practitioner of Assistance Service Provider.
(a) From a Hospital where the insured was treated to another nearest hospital, provided
1. such transportation is medically necessary
2. such medical services provided at a Hospital where the Insured Person is situated are not satisfactory
3. Our Assistance Company has agreed to the reimbursement of the cost of transportation in advance
of the transportation, and has arranged the same.
Page 28 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
(b) From a Hospital where the insured was last treated to the Insured Person’s usual place of residence.
ii. Repatriation of Mortal Remains:
In the event of accidental death of the Insured/ Insured Person due to an accident, the Company shall reimburse
the costs of transporting the mortal remains of the deceased Insured/Insured Person back to his/her usual place of
residence within India or the cost of local burial or cremation anywhere in INDIA where the accidental death
occurred.
The deductible in respect of this benefit will be applicable for each and every claim separately and shall be of an
amount as specified in the Policy Schedule.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured
Endorsement no.3 – PRE-EXISTING CONDITION IN LIFE THREATENING SITUATION:
a. Coverage
If the Insured / Insured Person contracts any disease or illness during the Policy period requiring life-saving
unforeseen emergency measures for treating such illness or disease and which requires In-Patient
treatment at a Hospital in an ICU due to any pre-existing condition, the Company will reimburse the medical
expenses incurred for Hospitalization to the Insured/Insured Person. The treatment for these emergency
measures would be paid till the Insured/Insured Person becomes medically stable, as ascertained by the
treating Medical Practitioner of the hospital. All further medical costs to maintain medically stable state
would have to be borne by the Insured/Insured Person;
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.4 – PERSONAL ACCIDENT COVERS - COMMON CARRIER (AD & PTD):
a. Coverage
The Policy will pay up to the limit of the Sum Insured for this benefit as specified in the Policy Schedule if accidental
injury to the Insured/Insured Person results in loss of life or permanent total disablement while riding as a passenger
(but not as a pilot operator or member of the crew) in or on, boarding or alighting from any common carrier provided
that, this benefit shall also not apply while the Insured/Insured Person is riding in or on, or boarding or alighting
from, any civilian aircraft that does not hold a current /or is piloted by a person who does not hold a current and
valid certificate of competency of a rating authorizing him to pilot such aircraft.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Personal Accident Covers-Common Carrier (AD&PTD):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in respect of the following:
1. Any existing physical disability.
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics, hallucinogens.
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning except where these arise
Page 29 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
from an accident.
4. Any payment under this benefit whereby the Company's liability would exceed the sum payable in the
event of accidental death.
5. Any other claim after a claim for accidental death has been admitted by the Company and becomes
payable.
6. Any claim which arises out of an accident connected with the operation of an aircraft (Including Cabin
Crew) or which occurs during parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is flying as a Fare
Paying passenger in a multi-engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter company.
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person from;
a. intentional self-injury, suicide, or attempted suicide.
b. whilst under the influence of intoxication, liquor or drugs.
c. arising or resulting from the insured/insured person committing any breach of law with criminal
intent or participating in an actual or attempted felony, riot, crime, misdemeanour or civil
commotion.
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing,
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand gliding, mountaineering or rock climbing, potholing,
abseiling, deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless specifically covered and duly
mentioned in the Policy Schedule.
8. Any consequential loss or damage cost or expense of whatsoever nature.
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly caused by, contributed to or aggravated or prolonged
by childbirth, maternity or pregnancy or in consequence thereof, venereal disease or infirmity.
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist
activities.
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Personal Accident Covers-Common Carrier (AD&PTD):
1. In the event of partial loss or impairment of the function of one of the above parts of the body or senses,
the appropriate proportion of the percentage as stated in the “Table of Benefits” will be considered for
payment.
2. If the accident impairs a number of physical or mental functions, the degree of disablement given in the
Table of Benefits will be added together, but the amount payable shall not exceed 100% of the Sum
Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule.
3. If the accident affects parts of the body or senses whose loss or inability to function is not dealt with above,
the governing factor in determining the benefit amount in such a case will be the degree to which the
normal physical or mental capabilities are impaired, solely from a medical point of view, as ascertained by
a Medical Practitioner or a panel of doctor of the company or Assistance Service Provider.
4. In the event of permanent disablement, the Insured/Insured Person will be under obligation:
a. To have himself/herself examined by the Medical Practitioners appointed by the
Company/Assistance Service Provider and the Company will pay the costs thereof
b. To authorize Medical Practitioner providing treatment or giving expert opinion and any other
authority to supply the Company any information that may be required on the condition of the
Insured/Insured Person.
5. If the above obligations are not met with due to whatsoever reason, the Company shall be relieved of its
liability to compensate under this benefit.
Page 30 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
6. The benefit applicable under this Section shall be in addition to the benefits applicable under optional
cover-Personal Accident - Common Carrier for Accidental Death and Permanent Total Disability, if opted.
Endorsement no.5 – DENTAL TREATMENT EXPENSES:
a. Coverage
The Policy shall reimburse to the Insured/Insured Person expenses incurred in respect of acute anesthetic treatment
of a natural tooth or teeth during a trip as an Inpatient or as an out-patient arising from an accidental injury, but not
exceeding the Sum Insured specified in the Policy Certificate.
b. Specific Exclusions Applicable to Dental Treatment Expenses:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured / Insured Person for:
1. Treatment, which could reasonably be delayed until the Insured/ Insured Person's return. The question of
what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided jointly by the treating Dentist and the
Assistance Service Provider.
2. Treatment of orthopaedic, degenerative or oncological diseases,
3. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges as per the determination by the Assistance Service
Provider.
4. Cementing or Fixation of tooth or teeth bridge/s.
5. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or 'plastic' surgery in
any form or manner).
6. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium, convalescence
home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, and long- term nursing
care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency.
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.6 – DAILY ALLOWANCE IN CASE OF HOSPITALISATION:
a. Coverage
The Policy will pay a fixed daily allowance upto a maximum no. of days as mentioned in the policy
Schedule/Certificate, in the event of hospitalization of the Insured/Insured Person due to an emergency accident or
illness arising out of other than pre-exiting diseases beyond a specified number of days as mentioned in the Policy
Schedule as deductible, for which a valid claim is admissible under the Policy whilst on a trip.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Page 31 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Daily Allowance in case of Hospitalisation:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person for:
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
permanent residence. The question of what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance with accepted
standards of medical care.
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency treatment on account of
an insured event.
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery
in any form or manner unless medically required as part of treatment for accidents and burns).
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium,
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, long-
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences of either completed.
6. Any health check-ups or examinations or measures primarily carried out for diagnostic or investigative
reasons for any purpose other than treatment related to an Accident
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.7 – DAILY ALLOWANCE IN CASE OF NON-HOSPITALISATION:
a. Coverage
The Policy will pay a fixed allowance upto a maximum no. of days as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate, if
an insured is treated for any injury / illness on OPD basis and his condition forbids him from travelling back to his
original and usual place of residence and is confined to a location as medically suggested by the Medical Practitioner,
then the insured will be paid the amount as specified in the policy schedule/certificate per day.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions to Daily Allowance in case of Non-Hospitalisation:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person for:
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
permanent residence. The question of what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance with accepted
standards of medical care.
2. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery
in any form or manner unless medically required as part of treatment for accidents and burns).
3. Treatment incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium,
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, long-
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency
4. Any treatment relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences of either
Page 32 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
completed.
5. Any health check-ups or examinations or measures primarily carried out for diagnostic or investigative
reasons for any purpose other than treatment related to an Accident
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.8 – COMPASSIONATE VISIT:
a. Coverage
In the event the Insured / Insured Person is hospitalized for more than five (5) consecutive days due to an emergency
accident or illness arising out of other than pre-existing diseases for which a valid claim is admissible under Base
cover-Emergency Accidental Hospitalization or optional cover, Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease (if
opted) and his/her medical condition forbids repatriation and no adult member of his/her immediate family is
present, the Company / Assistance Service Provider, after obtaining confirmation of need for a companion from the
attending Medical Practitioner will provide:
a) a return trip economy class air ticket, or first class railway ticket, to allow one immediate family member, to
be at his/ her bedside for the duration of stay in the Hospital; and
b) expenses towards stay of the immediate family member during such compassionate visit.
The policy will also reimburse the cost of return fare for the insured to visit his/her native place in India, in the
unfortunate event of the immediate family member (spouse, dependent children, parents) being hospitalized for
more than five (5 consecutive days in India or in the event of death of the immediate family member (spouse,
dependent children or parents).
The Company’s liability for round trip ticket and the expenses relating to this benefit shall be as per the coverage and
the limits of Sum Insured specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Compassionate Visit:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person for:
1. Treatment which could be reasonably delayed until Insured/Insured Person's return to his /her place of
permanent residence. The question of what can or what cannot be reasonably delayed will be decided
jointly by the treating Medical Practitioner and the Company and shall be in accordance with accepted
standards of medical care.
2. Charges in excess of reasonable and customary charges incurred for emergency treatment on account of
an insured event.
3. Treatment relating to the removal of physical flaws or anomalies (cosmetic treatment or plastic surgery
in any form or manner unless medically required as part of treatment for accidents and burns).
4. Expenses incurred in connection with rest or recuperation at a spa, health resort, sanatorium,
convalescence home, rehabilitation measures, private duty nursing, respite care, domiciliary care, long-
term nursing care, custodial care and treatment related alcoholism and drug dependency
5. Any cost relating to the insured person’s pregnancy, childbirth or the consequences of either completed.
6. Any health check-ups or examinations or measures primarily carried out for diagnostic or investigative
Page 33 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
reasons for any purpose other than treatment related to an Accident
7. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.9 – HIJACK DISTRESS ALLOWANCE (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
This Section provides for payment of an allowance in the event of hijack of a common carrier in which the Insured/
Insured Person is traveling on a trip covered under this Policy as specified in the Policy Schedule/certificate.
The deductible in respect of this benefit will be applicable for each and every claim separately and shall be of the
number of hours the common carrier has been under hijack, as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Hijack Distress Allowance (AIRWAYS):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in respect of the following:
1. Any incident where the Insured/Insured Person is suspected to be either principal or an accessory in the
hijacking.
2. Any claim as a consequence of a change in the regular routes of travel/journey of the common carrier
due to traffic, weather, fuel shortage, and technical snag or security reasons.
3. Any exclusion mentioned in the ‘General Exclusion’ section of this Policy.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.10 – CHILD ESCORT:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse for the travelling expenses of Insured / Insured person’s minor children aged below 17
years for return to home town up to the limit of sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate. The
Insurer’s liability to make payment is only in excess of the Deductible as specified in policy certificate.
 If the Insured / Insured person whilst on a Trip in India accompanied with his minor children,
dies due to illness or accident covered under the policy.
 Such minor children/s is covered under this travel along with Insured / Insured Person
 Such minor children/s is not accompanied by any other adult family member.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Child Escort:
This benefit does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”,
directly, in whole or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General
Exclusions' section of this Policy.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.11 – TOTAL LOSS OF CHECKED-IN BAGGAGE (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
Page 34 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
The Policy shall reimburse to the Insured/Insured Person for the total and complete loss of checked-in baggage
caused by a Common Carrier (Air) on a trip covered under this Policy, up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule.
The cover is limited to the travel destinations specified in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of residence.
In the event of such a total and complete loss of checked-in baggage whilst in the custody of an airline, a Property
Irregularity Report (PIR) must be obtained from the airline immediately upon discovery of the loss which must be
submitted along with the claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage (Airways):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of the following:
1. Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other item(s) not declared to, and
agreed to by the Company.
2. Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers
in the event of loss of checked-in baggage has been procured and submitted to the Company.
3. Any partial loss of the items contained within the checked-in baggage.
4. Items contained within the checked-in baggage, which are valued in excess of INR.5000 without
appropriate proof of ownership.
5. Losses arising from any delay, detention, confiscation by the customs officials or other public authorities.
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage (Airways):
1 The Policy will reimburse the Insured/Insured Person for the market value of the checked-in baggage in
the event of total and complete loss of such checked-in baggage caused by a common carrier up to the
limits specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate provided that:
a. Maximum amount payable per checked-in baggage, in case more than one bag has been checked-in,
is 50% of the applicable Sum Insured. In case of only one bag being checked-in, the amount payable is
100% of the applicable Sum Insured.
b. Insured has provided all the documents, reports and other details concerning the loss.
2 For the purpose of this benefit, “market value” refers to the sum required to purchase new items of the same
kind and quality (which are lost) less an amount representing wear and tear, usage etc., at the time of loss.
3 If the Company makes any payment under this benefit, it is a condition that any recovery from any
common carrier by the Insured/Insured Person, under the terms of the Convention for the Unification of
Certain Rules Relating “Warsaw Convention” shall become the property of the Company.
4 The amount payable in respect of any one article, pair or set is limited to the amount as specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate.
5 No partial loss or damage shall become payable. However, total loss of individual unit(s) of baggage shall
not be construed as falling within this Special Condition.
6 In the event that claims are submitted for total loss of checked-in baggage as well as under the optional covers,
Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier, Baggage Loss in Common carrier (if opted),
the higher of the claims shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s) of checked-in
baggage during any one period of insurance.
Page 35 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Endorsement no.11A – TOTAL LOSS OF CHECKED-IN BAGGAGE ON BENEFIT BASIS (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the Sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, to the
Insured/Insured Person for the total and complete loss of checked-in baggage caused by a Common Carrier (Air) on
a trip covered under this Policy. The cover is limited to the travel destinations specified in the main travel ticket from
his/her usual place of residence.
In the event of such a total and complete loss of checked-in baggage whilst in the custody of an airline, a Property
Irregularity Report (PIR) must be obtained from the airline immediately upon discovery of the loss which must be
submitted along with the claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of the following:
1. Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other item(s) not declared to, and
agreed to by the Company.
2. Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers
in the event of loss of checked-in baggage has been procured and submitted to the Company.
3. Any partial loss of the items contained within the checked-in baggage.
4. Items contained within the checked-in baggage, which are valued in excess of INR.5000 without
appropriate proof of ownership.
5. Losses arising from any delay, detention, confiscation by the customs officials or other public authorities.
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Total Loss of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):
1. If the Company makes any payment under this benefit, it is a condition that any recovery from any
common carrier by the Insured/Insured Person, under the terms of the Convention for the Unification of
Certain Rules Relating “Warsaw Convention” shall become the property of the Company.
2. No partial loss or damage shall become payable. However, total loss of individual unit(s) of baggage shall
not be construed as falling within this Special Condition.
3. In the event that claims are submitted for total loss of checked-in baggage as well as under the optional
covers- Delay of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier on
Benefit basis, Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis (Airways) (if opted), the higher of the claims
shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s) of checked-in baggage during any one
period of insurance.
Endorsement no.12 – DELAY OF CHECKED-IN BAGGAGE (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the costs of necessary emergency purchases of toiletries, medication and clothing in the
event of the Insured/Insured Person suffering delay in scheduled arrival of his/her checked-in baggage caused by a
common carrier while being transported during the insured trip up to the limits specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate, provided that:
Page 36 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
a. The delay of checked-in baggage is more than certain number of hours specified in the Policy
Schedule/certificate as deductible which is calculated from the actual arrival time of the common carrier
at the destination and relates to delivery of baggage that has been checked-in by the common carrier.
b. Insured/ Insured Person provide the Company with a written proof of delay from the common carrier.
c. Insured/Insured Person provides the Company with the receipts for the necessary emergency purchase
of toiletries, medication and clothing that he/she needed to buy.
d. In the event that claims are submitted for Delay of checked-in baggage as well as under the optional covers,
Total loss of checked-in baggage(Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier, Baggage Loss in Common carrier (if opted),
the higher of the claims shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s) of checked-in
baggage during any one period of insurance.
The cover is limited to the travel destinations specified in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of residence
and return trip back to usual place of residence along with all halts and via destinations included in the main travel
ticket.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:
1 Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other item not declared to, and
agreed to by the Company.
2 Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers
in the event of loss of checked-in baggage has been procured and submitted to the Company.
3 Any partial loss of the items contained within the checked-in baggage.
4 Items contained within the checked-in baggage, which are valued in excess of INR 5000 without
appropriate proof of ownership.
5 Losses arising from any delay, detention, confiscation by the customs officials or other public authorities.
6 Loss due to complete/partial damage of the checked-in baggage.
7 Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways):
1. If the Company makes any payment under this benefit, it is a condition that any recovery from any
common carrier by the Insured/Insured Person, under the terms of the Convention for the Unification
of Certain Rules Relating to “Warsaw Convention” shall become the property of the Company.
Endorsement no.12A – DELAY OF CHECKED-IN BAGGAGE ON BENEFIT BASIS (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate, in the event of the
Insured/Insured Person suffering delay in scheduled arrival of his/her checked-in baggage caused by a common
Page 37 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
carrier while being transported during the insured trip up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate,
provided that:
a. The delay of checked-in baggage is more than certain number of hours specified in the Policy
Schedule/certificate as deductible which is calculated from the actual arrival time of the common carrier
at the destination and relates to delivery of baggage that has been checked-in by the common carrier.
b. Insured/ Insured Person provide the Company with a written proof of delay from the common carrier.
c. Insured/Insured Person provides the Company with the receipts for the necessary emergency purchase
of toiletries, medication and clothing that he/she needed to buy.
d. In the event that claims are submitted for Delay of checked-in Bagggage as well as under the optional
covers- Total loss of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways), Baggage Delay in Common carrier on
Benefit basis, Baggage Loss in Common carrier on Benefit basis (Airways) (if opted), the higher of the claims
shall be payable by the Company in respect of the same item(s) of checked-in baggage during any one
period of insurance.
The cover is limited to the travel destinations specified in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of residence
and return trip back to usual place of residence along with all halts and via destinations included in the main travel
ticket.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Delay of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:
1. Valuables and money, all kinds of securities and tickets/passes or any other item(s) not declared to, and
agreed to by the Company.
2. Loss of property unless a Property Irregularity Report or other report usually issued by common carriers
in the event of loss of checked-in baggage has been procured and submitted to the Company.
3. Any partial loss of the items contained within the checked-in baggage.
4. Items contained within the checked-in baggage, which are valued in excess of INR.5000 without
appropriate proof of ownership.
5. Losses arising from any delay, detention, confiscation by the customs officials or other public authorities.
6. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Delay of Checked-in Baggage on Benefit Basis (Airways):
1. If the Company makes any payment under this benefit, it is a condition that any recovery from any common
carrier by the Insured/Insured Person, under the terms of the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules
Relating to “Warsaw Convention” shall become the property of the Company.
Endorsement no.13 – TRIP CANCELLATION:
a. Coverage
Page 38 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
In the event of cancellation of trip due to necessary and unavoidable reasons as stated below, the policy will reimburse
the insured subject to limits shown in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of personal accommodation, any
sightseeing booked in advance, cruise ticket and travel charges paid or contracted to be paid by the insured, which
are not recoverable from any other source, and or cost of rescheduling the tour and expenses at the destination.
1. Cancellation before the trip shall be because of the following occurring 15 days prior to the departure date
as stated in the policy.
a) Death of Insured, Insured’s Family members
b) Death of Brother or Sister of the insured
c) Serious injury, sudden sickness of Insured, insured’s spouse or parent or parent in-law or child
requiring hospitalization for more than 24 hrs.
b. Special Conditions applicable to Trip Cancellation
Any claim paid to the Insured Person under optional covers- Trip Interruption or Travel Inconvenience or All Risk
Cancellation (if opted) shall invalidate the claim payment under this benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.13A – TRIP CANCELLATION ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
In the event of cancellation of trip due to necessary and unavoidable reasons as stated below, the policy will pay a
fixed benefit as specified in the policy schedule/certificate
1. Cancellation before the trip shall be because of the following occurring 15 days prior to the departure date
as stated in the policy.
a) Death of Insured, Insured’s Family members
b) Death of Brother or Sister of the insured
c) Serious injury, sudden sickness of Insured, insured’s spouse or parent or parent in-law or child
requiring hospitalization for more than 24 hrs.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.14 – TRIP INTERRUPTION:
a. Coverage
In the event of interruption of trip due to necessary and unavoidable reasons as stated below, the policy will reimburse
the insured subject to limits shown in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of prepaid expenses of the tour
which remained unutilized which includes personal accommodation, sightseeing booked in advance, cruise ticket
and travel charges paid and or by the insured to return to his home city and or cost of rescheduling the tour and
expenses at the destination.
1. Interruption (the cutting short by early return to home city) of the trip because of:
a) Death, serious injury or sudden major sickness of insured insured’s spouse, child, parents or parent in
laws requiring hospitalization OR if the insured becomes medically unfit to continue the journey.
b) The hijack of an aircraft in which Insured Person is traveling as a fare paying passenger.
Page 39 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
c) Death of Brother or Sister.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Conditions applicable to Trip Interruption:
Any claim paid to the Insured Person under optional covers- Trip cancellation or Travel Inconvenience or All Risk
Cancellation (if opted) shall invalidate the claim payment under this benefit.
Endorsement no.14A – TRIP INTERRUPTION ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
In the event of interruption of trip due to necessary and unavoidable reasons as stated below, the policy will pay a fixed
benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of prepaid expenses of the tour
which remained unutilized which includes personal accommodation, sightseeing booked in advance, cruise ticket
and travel charges paid and or by the insured to return to his home city and or cost of rescheduling the tour and
expenses at the destination.
1. Interruption (the cutting short by early return to home city) of the trip because of:
a) Death, serious injury or sudden major sickness of insured insured’s spouse, child, parents or parent in
laws requiring hospitalization OR if the insured becomes medically unfit to continue the journey.
b) The hijack of an aircraft in which Insured Person is traveling as a fare paying passenger.
c) Death of Brother or Sister.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.15 – MISSED CONNECTION (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
If the confirmed onward connecting flight is missed at the transfer point due to the late arrival of the incoming
confirmed connecting scheduled flight and no onward transportation is made available within 2/3 hours of actual
arrival time of the incoming flight, the policy will reimburse the expenses towards transportation costs to join the
trip upto a maximum of the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate (must be of the same class
of original tickets purchased) together with
1. expenses incurred in respect of reasonable hotel accommodation, restaurant meals or refreshments, if
not provided by the carrier or other third party, subject to production of bills/ receipts;
2. non-refundable, unused portion of the pre-paid expenses as long as these expenses are supported by a
proof of purchase and is not reimbursable by another source.
Such delay must be authenticated by the airline in writing.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Page 40 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Missed Connection (Airways):
This benefit does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under the head coverage, directly in
whole or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions'
section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.15A – MISSED CONNECTION ON BENEFFIT BASIS (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
If the confirmed onward connecting flight is missed at the transfer point due to the late arrival of the incoming
confirmed connecting scheduled flight and no onward transportation is made available within 2/3 hours of actual
arrival time of the incoming flight, the policy will pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the
policy schedule/certificate.
Such delay must be authenticated by the airline in writing.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Missed Connection on Benefit basis(Airways):
This benefit does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under the head coverage, directly in
whole or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions'
section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.16 – TRIP DELAY (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the reasonable additional expenses towards meals and lodging incurred by the Insured
Person upto the Sum Insured mentioned in the policy certificate, if his or her trip, covered by this Policy, is delayed
beyond a specified number of hours, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/certificate, from the scheduled time only
on account of the following unforeseen reasons:
1. Strike of the airline, where the insured person had booked conveyance in advance
2. Inclement weather conditions causing cancellation or interruption of the trip s;
3. The places intended to be occupied by the Insured/ Insured Person for purposes of his or her stay during
the trip or the destination being made uninhabitable by fire, flood, vandalism, burglary, or such natural
disaster;
It is the responsibility of the Insured to produce necessary proof establishing the reason for Trip Delay along with
the receipts.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
Page 41 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Trip Delay (Airways):
This benefit does not cover loss other than those mentioned above under the head coverage, directly, in whole or in
part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this
Policy.
Endorsement no.16A - TRIP DELAY ON BENEFIT BASIS (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate if his or her
trip, covered by this Policy, is delayed beyond a specified number of hours, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule,
from the scheduled time only on account of the following unforeseen reasons:
1. Strike of the airline, where the insured person had booked conveyance in advance
2. Inclement weather conditions causing cancellation or interruption of the trip s;
3. The places intended to be occupied by the Insured/ Insured Person for purposes of his or her stay during
the trip or the destination being made uninhabitable by fire, flood, vandalism, burglary, or such natural
disaster;
It is the responsibility of the Insured to produce necessary proof establishing the reason for Trip Delay along with
the receipts.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Trip Delay on benefit basis (Airways):
This benefit does not cover loss other than those mentioned above under the head coverage, directly, in whole or in
part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this
Policy.
Endorsement no.17 – EMERGENCY ACCOMMODATION DUE TO TRIP DELAY (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the additional cost of emergency accommodation up to a maximum of two (2) nights if
the Insured/Insured Person could not stay in the accommodation originally booked due to,
1. Inclement weather conditions causing cancellation or interruption of the trip with due authentication by a
letter from the common carrier;
2. The place intended to be occupied by the Insured/ Insured Person for purposes of his or her stay during
the trip or the destination being made uninhabitable by fire, flood, earthquake, storm, hurricane,
explosion, outbreak of major infectious diseases, vandalism, burglary, or such natural disaster;
Page 42 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
The cost of the emergency accommodation shall be less than or equal to the category of accommodation originally
booked by the Insures/Insured person
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Emergency Accommodation due to Trip Delay (Airways):
This benefit does not cover any loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, directly in whole
or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of
this Policy.
Endorsement no.18 – FLIGHT DELAY:
a. Coverage
In the event of delay of the airlines, whilst on a Trip, at any airport specified in the Insured Person’s main travel
booking, the policy shall reimburse the Insured Person for any reasonable and necessary expenses incurred
on any alternate travel booking under any mode of transport(but travel booking superior to original category is
not covered) post deduction of compensation offered by service provider/common carrier or through any other
source, for travelling to the next Intended Destination as per Insured person’s main travel booking up to the
limit of Sum Insured specified in the Policy schedule/Certificate, if such delay is caused due to any of the
following reasons:
1. Inclement Weather
2. Any Strike, riots, industrial action at the Port or relating to the Common Carrier
3. Delay by the Airlines
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
1. The Insured Person shall submit to the Company sufficient proof to substantiate the reason for such
delay of the Common Carrier, unless this proof is available to the Company directly from a reliable
source in the public domain;
2. The delay of the Common Carrier is in excess of the number of hours specified in the Policy
Certificate from the scheduled time of the Common Carrier at the Port.
3. The maximum liability of the company under this cover during the policy period shall be the sum insured
as specified in the Policy schedule/Certificate, irrespective of whether the policy is Single Trip or Multi
Trip Policy.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Flight Delay:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under this Benefit of the Policy in
respect of an Insured Person, directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the
following:
1. Delayed arrival of the Insured Person or Travelling Companion
2. Any delayed departure caused by a Strike or industrial action known to exist or capable of being
anticipated at the time the Trip was booked.
Page 43 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
3. If the Common Carrier is taken out of service on the instruction of the Civil Aviation Authority, or
any other governmental authority.
4. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” Section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.18A – FLIGHT DELAY ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
In the event of delay of the airlines, whilst on a Trip, at any airport specified in the Insured Person’s main travel
booking, the policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy
schedule/certificate, for travelling to the next Intended Destination as per Insured person’s main travel booking,
if such delay is caused due to any of the following reasons:
a. Inclement Weather
b. Any Strike, riots, industrial action at the Port or relating to the Common Carrier
c. Delay by the Airlines
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
1. The Insured Person shall submit to the Company sufficient proof to substantiate the reason for such
delay of the Common Carrier, unless this proof is available to the Company directly from a reliable
source in the public domain;
2. The delay of the Common Carrier is in excess of the number of hours specified in the Policy
Certificate from the scheduled time of the Common Carrier at the Port.
3. The Company’s maximum liability for payment of a claim under the cover shall be once during the Single
Trip. In an annual multi trip, the sum insured shall be paid once during every trip undertaken during the
policy period in the event of flight delay.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Flight Delay on benefit basis:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under this Benefit of the Policy in
respect of an Insured Person, directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the
following:
1. Delayed arrival of the Insured Person or Travelling Companion
2. Any delayed departure caused by a Strike or industrial action known to exist or capable of being
anticipated at the time the Trip was booked.
3. If the Common Carrier is taken out of service on the instruction of the Civil Aviation Authority, or
any other governmental authority.
4. Any exclusion mentioned in the “General Exclusions” Section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.19 – OVER BOOKED-COMMON CARRIER (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
Page 44 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
If the insured/ insured person is denied boarding of an aircraft on a commercial scheduled common carrier due to
over-booking, and no alternative transportation is made available within 6/12 hours opted as deductible and
mentioned in the policy certificate, of the scheduled departure time of such flight, the policy will indemnify the
insured for expenses incurred, by evidence of bills/receipts in respect of hotel accommodation up to a maximum
of three (3) nights, if not provided by the Carrier or any other third party and purchase of a new ticket, less refund, if
any, obtained from the Carrier, subject to the Sum Insured specified against this Section in the Schedule to the Policy.
The over-booked flight details to be obtained by the insured must be verified in writing by the operators of the airline
or their handling agents.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Over Booked-Common Carrier (Airways):
This benefit does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, directly
in whole or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions'
section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.19A – OVER BOOKED-COMMON CARRIER ON BENEFIT BASIS (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
If the insured/ insured person is denied boarding of an aircraft on a commercial scheduled common carrier due to
over-booking, and no alternative transportation is made available within 6/12 hours opted as deductible and
mentioned in the policy certificate, of the scheduled departure time of such flight, the policy will pay a fixed benefit
equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate. The over-booked flight details to be
obtained by the insured must be verified in writing by the operators of the airline or their handling agents.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Over Booked-Common Carrier on benefit basis (Airways):
This benefit does not cover any other loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, directly,
in whole or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions'
section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.20 – BOUNCED HOTEL BOOKING:
a. Coverage
In the event of hotel booking at destination point(s) being bounced i.e. Insured Person(s) could not obtain hotel
accommodation services already booked for him on confirmed basis with the suppliers / agents within India due
to non-supply of services, the Insurance Company shall reimburse to the extent of 80% of following expenses:
Page 45 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
a. Reasonable cost of Transportation expenses to the alternative hotel in the same location.
b. The difference of cost in up gradation to a superior class of accommodation, wherever alternate
accommodation is not available on the cost of pre-booked hotel. For this benefit the Insured shall be
required to furnish proof that the alternate accommodation on the cost of pre-booked hotel is not
available in the same location in the form of a certificate issued by the Alternate Accommodation Service
Provider
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Bounced Hotel Booking:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for:
1. Changes in plans by the Insured/ Insured Person, an immediate family member, or travelling companion
for any reason.
2. Adverse change in financial circumstances of the Insured/ Insured Person, any family member, or a
travelling companion.
3. Any business or contractual obligations of the Insured/Insured Person, any family member, or a travelling
companion, except for termination or layoff of employment of the Insured/Insured Person or the
travelling companion of the Insured as defined above.
4. Default by the person, agency, or tour operator from whom the Insured / Insured Person bought this Policy
and/or made travel arrangements.
5. Any government regulation or prohibition.
6. An event or circumstance, which occurs prior to the commencement of the period of insurance.
7. On account of a felonious assault, where the Insured/Insured Person, any family member of the
Insured/Insured Person, the travelling companion or travelling companion's family member has been a
principal or accessory in the assault committed.
8. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
c. Special condition applicable to Bounced Hotel Booking:
In the event that claims are submitted for Bounced Hotel Booking as well as under the optional cover – Loss of
Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airways) (if opted), the higher of the claims shall be payable by the Company during
any one period of insurance.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.21 – TRAVEL INCONVENIENCE:
a. Coverage
In the event of Trip cancellation or Interruption of a covered trip due to necessary and unavoidable reasons as stated
below, the policy will reimburse the insured subject to the limits shown in the policy schedule/certificate, for loss of
personal accommodation, any sightseeing booked in advance, cruise ticket and travel charges paid or contracted
to be paid by the insured, which are not recoverable from any other source.
1. When Insured’s Principal residence and/or his intended place of stay at destination is rendered
uninhabitable due to Fire, flood, vandalism or natural disaster and also his place of business is rendered
inoperative due to operation of said perils.
Page 46 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
2. Termination of employment or layoff affecting the insured provided that the insured have been employed
with the same employer for at least five continuous years without any break.
3. The Insured and/or his immediate family member have become victim of Felonious Assault 10 days prior
to the departure date provided he/they are not principal or an accessory in such felonious assault.
4. Inclement weather / climatic condition in the city or primary place of departure and / or at intended
destination.
5. Civil Unrest, Riot and Strike in the home city and/or at departing station and/or intended destination (as
defined in the policy) of the Insured making the trip impossible, provided that
 The Govt. of India issues a travel advisory.
 Airport is shut down forcing the Airline to delay the flight for more than 24 hours or to cancel the flight.
 Curfew is imposed by the City Administration.
6. Terrorist Attack in the home city and/or at departing station and/or destination listed on the insured’s
itinerary 3 days prior to the Insured’s departure date and resulting that the Insured is unable to move out
consequent upon such terrorist attack.
7. Compulsory quarantine or prevention of travel by Government of India
b. Benefits under Travel Inconvenience:
1. TRIP CANCELLATION BENEFITS: When the insured risk occurs before departure, the policy provides
reimbursement of the entire non-refundable, cancelled portion of the travel arrangements (As per coverage’s
shown in the policy schedule/certificate) i.e. Flight and/or Hotel Booking and/or other incidental expenses for
which the insured has or contracted to be paid prior to his departure and which are not recoverable from any
source, subject otherwise to the terms, conditions, limitations, exclusions and limit of Sum Insured opted under
the Policy.
2. TRIP INTERRUPTION BENEFIT: The policy will reimburse up to the Maximum Limit as specified in the Policy
Schedule/certificate for the Trips that have been interrupted or delayed due to operation of Insured Peril as
mentioned hereinabove. The policy will reimburse for the forfeited, non-refundable unused prepaid expenses
made prior to Insured’s departure date and additional reasonable and necessary transportation expenses
incurred by him / her plus accommodation expenses maximum up to INR. 3,000 per night for
 Return to City of Residence in India
 Re-joining the remaining trip after its interruption during the period of trip. Due to operation of any of the
insured peril.
However, the benefits payable under this cover shall not exceed the cost of economy airfare by the most direct route
less any refunds paid or payable.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
c. Specific Exclusions applicable to Travel Inconvenience:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:
a. Travel arrangements being cancelled or changed by any airline, cruise line or the tour operator beyond
insured peril
Page 47 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
b. Voluntary changes in travel plans by the Insured giving rise to a claim under this section.
c. Any business or contractual obligations of the Insured and/or any family member except for termination
or lay off of employment as defined above provided insured is not the Owner, proprietor, Majority
Shareholder and Director of the said company.
d. Termination of employment due to any unlawful act of the insured.
e. Default / insolvency by and of the person, agency or tour operator from whom the Insured had bought his
Travel arrangements.
f. Any governmental regulations or prohibition imposed by any Administrative Authority at the time or
before booking of insured’s travel arrangement.
g. Booking of the trip is undertaken ignoring the adverse situation as published by the Mass Media, Union
Government, State Government and/or any Administrative Authority for travel to particular country or
part of the country which may give rise to a claim.
h. Loss of visa charges shall not be paid under this section.
d. Specific Conditions applicable to Travel Inconvenience:
a) It is a condition precedent to liability hereunder that in the event of any occurrence likely to give rise to a
claim under this Insurance, that the Insured Person must notify insurer immediately. While notifying the
occurrence, the insured person must quote as much as information concerning the occurrence as is
available including policy number and its date of issue.
b) It shall be the responsibility of Insured to take appropriate action to avoid or minimize any potential claim
under policy (e.g. avoid intentional delay during interruption or not to travel to the country or part thereof
for which warning has been issued.)
c) The insured must not be aware of any reason (as stated in the list of covered risks) at the time of opting of
this extension that may give rise to a claim under the policy.
d) The company’s liability shall be restricted to the sum insured opted by the Insured or the sum of total non-
refundable amount whichever is less.
e) In case of partial cancellation of the trip, i.e. if only one or two members’ trip is cancelled on account of
operation of Insured peril, the company’s liability shall be restricted to the non-refundable portion of
insured’s travel tickets only and not for Hotel Charges unless exclusive booking was made for each member.
No partial charges of Hotel Booking for reduction in number of members will be allowed in such cases.
f) If the situation becomes normal against the alert of Quarantine issued earlier by the Govt. of India or if the
prevention of travel is withdrawn by Govt. of India before the departure date mention in the schedule of
policy and this information is available for the knowledge of General Public through any communication,
the company shall not be liable for any claim in respect of such perils.
g) Operation of any of insured peril shall be considered only at the time of travel for all practical purposes in
settlement of claims.
Endorsement no.21A – TRAVEL INCONVENIENCE ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
In the event of Trip cancellation or Interruption of a covered trip due to necessary and unavoidable reasons as stated
below, the policy will pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate.
1. When Insured’s Principal residence and/or his intended place of stay at destination is rendered
uninhabitable due to Fire, flood, vandalism or natural disaster and also his place of business is rendered
inoperative due to operation of said perils.
Page 48 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
2. Termination of employment or layoff affecting the insured provided that the insured have been employed
with the same employer for at least five continuous years without any break.
3. The Insured and/or his immediate family member have become victim of Felonious Assault 10 days prior to
the departure date provided he/they are not principal or an accessory in such felonious assault.
4. Inclement weather / climatic condition in the city or primary place of departure and / or at intended
destination.
5. Civil Unrest, Riot and Strike in the home city and/or at departing station and/or intended destination (as
defined in the policy) of the Insured making the trip impossible, provided that
a. The Govt. of India issues a travel advisory.
b. Airport is shut down forcing the Airline to delay the flight for more than 24 hours or to cancel the
flight.
c. Curfew is imposed by the City Administration.
6. Terrorist Attack in the home city and/or at departing station and/or destination listed on the insured’s
itinerary 3 days prior to the Insured’s departure date and resulting that the Insured is unable to move out
consequent upon such terrorist attack.
7. Compulsory quarantine or prevention of travel by Government of India
b. Benefits under Travel Inconvenience on Benefit basis:
a. TRIP CANCELLATION BENEFITS
b. TRIP INTERRUPTION BENEFIT
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
c. Specific Exclusions applicable to Travel Inconvenience on benefit basis:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in connection with or in respect of any
expenses whatsoever incurred by the Insured/Insured Person for:
1. Travel arrangements being cancelled or changed by any airline, cruise line or the tour operator beyond
insured peril
2. Voluntary changes in travel plans by the Insured giving rise to a claim under this section.
3. Any business or contractual obligations of the Insured and/or any family member except for termination
or lay off of employment as defined above provided insured is not the Owner, proprietor, Majority
Shareholder and Director of the said company.
4. Termination of employment due to any unlawful act of the insured.
5. Default / insolvency by and of the person, agency or tour operator from whom the Insured had bought his
Travel arrangements.
6. Any governmental regulations or prohibition imposed by any Administrative Authority at the time or
before booking of insured’s travel arrangement.
7. Booking of the trip is undertaken ignoring the adverse situation as published by the Mass Media, Union
Government, State Government and/or any Administrative Authority for travel to particular country or
part of the country which may give rise to a claim.
8. Loss of visa charges shall not be paid under this section.
Page 49 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
d. Specific Conditions applicable to Travel Inconvenience on benefit basis:
a. It is a condition precedent to liability hereunder that in the event of any occurrence likely to give rise to a
claim under this Insurance, that the Insured Person must notify insurer immediately. While notifying the
occurrence, the insured person must quote as much as information concerning the occurrence as is
available including policy number and its date of issue.
b. It shall be the responsibility of Insured to take appropriate action to avoid or minimize any potential claim
under policy (e.g. avoid intentional delay during interruption or not to travel to the country or part thereof
for which warning has been issued.)
c. The insured must not be aware of any reason (as stated in the list of covered risks) at the time of opting of
this extension that may give rise to a claim under the policy.
d. The company’s liability shall be restricted to the sum insured opted by the Insured.
e. If the situation becomes normal against the alert of Quarantine issued earlier by the Govt. of India or if the
prevention of travel is withdrawn by Govt. of India before the departure date mention in the schedule of
policy and this information is available for the knowledge of General Public through any communication,
the company shall not be liable for any claim in respect of such perils.
f. Operation of any of insured peril shall be considered only at the time of travel for all practical purposes in
settlement of claims.
Endorsement no.22 – TRAVEL SERVICE SUPPLIER INSOLVENCY:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the below stated expenses incurred by the insured in case of pre booked tour by
paying an advance with an Travel Service Provider located at the intended destination(s), provided an Travel
Service Provider turns insolvent and the insured/insured person does not get intended service. This benefit is
limited up to the limit of sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate.
1. The company will pay the reasonable cost of such rearrangement but not exceeding the cost that the
insured has already incurred for intended journey and should be for the same standard of
transportation and accommodation as was originally booked by the Insured for intended journey.
2. In case of cancellation of journey because of non-rearrangement of Scheduled journey, the company
shall be liable only up to the extent of non-refundable cost of unused travels for which the Insured has
already paid, including agent’s fee for such cancellation but limited to the amount of commission the
agent had earned on pre-paid refundable amount of cancelled travel arrangements.
3. Any additional expenses necessarily incurred on returning to Insured’s home including reasonable
hotel accommodation and transport expenses
b. Specific Exclusion applicable to Travel Service Supplier Insolvency:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of the following:
1. If Insolvency of a travel services provider if at the relevant time, the travel services provider was insolvent
or a reasonable person would have reason to expect the travel services provider might become insolvent.
2. Claims arising directly from war, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether war be
declared or not), civil war, rebellion, insurrection, civil commotion assuming the proportions of or
amounting to an uprising, military or usurped power;
3. Accommodation expenses incurred after the pre-decided return date of the trip to insured’s town.
4. Any other loss falling under the General Exclusions of the Policy
Page 50 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
c. Co-Payment applicable to Travel Service Supplier Insolvency:
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co-payment as specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate. Co-Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every
claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.23 – CAR RENTAL EXCESS INSURANCE:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse to the Insured/ Insured Person up to the limit of sum Insured as specified in the policy
schedule/certificate the “Excess Amount” that the Insured is obliged to pay arising from physical loss of or
damage to the rental car whilst in the Insured’s control and custody during the covered trip. This policy covers
the Excess Charge following the theft or damage to Rental car including the undercarriage, windows and tyres.
The policy will also reimburse to the Insured for the costs of followings for which the Insured is liable in case of
insured event:
1. CAR RENTAL KEY COVER: Replacing a lost or stolen rental car key, including replacement of locks and
locksmith charges up to 20% of limit of indemnity under this section
2. MISFUELING COVER: Cleaning out the engine and fuel system and associated towing costs up to 20% of
the limit of indemnity as mentioned in the schedule, in case the Insured put wrong type of fuel in its
rented vehicle,
3. TOWING COSTS COVER: Towing or recovery costs following an accident or breakdown involving the
Rental Vehicle, up to a maximum of 20% of the limit of indemnity under this section.
b. Co-Payment applicable to Car Rental Excess Insurance:
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co-payment as specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate. Co-Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every
claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES THE TOTAL PAYMENT FOR ALL ABOVE CONTINGENCIES SHALL EXCEED THE LIMIT AS
SHOWN IN THE SCHEDULE OF POLICY UNDER THIS SECTION
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Car Rental excess Insurance:
1. All insured drivers must hold a valid and effective driving license, or hold a fully recognized license which
must be effective at the time of incident.
2. Except with the written consent of the insurers, no person is entitled to admit liability on their behalf or to
give any representations or other undertakings binding upon them. The insurer shall be entitled to the
absolute conduct, control and settlement of all proceedings arising out of or in connection with claims in
the name of the insured person.
3. The insurers may at their option take proceedings in the name of the insured person to recover
compensation from any Third party in respect of any indemnity provided under this insurance and any
amounts so recovered shall belong to the insurers and the insured person shall render all reasonable
assistance to the insurers.
Page 51 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
4. The cover under this section will incept from the time the Insured Person takes legal control of Rental Car
and will cease at the time Rental Agency assumes back control of rented car, subject always to the
condition that the custody of such rental car with the Insured Person is during the period of his covered
Trip only.
d. Specific Exclusions applicable to Car Rental Excess Insurance:
The Company shall not be liable in respect of any claim made of:
1. Loss or destruction of or damage to any property whatsoever, or any liability, loss or exposure
whatsoever resulting or arising there from or any consequential loss directly caused by or contributed to
or arising from
(a) ionizing radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any Nuclear fuel or any waste and the
combustion of nuclear fuel or
(b) the radioactive toxic explosive or other hazardous properties or any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear
component thereof.
2. Operation of the vehicle in violation of the terms of the rental agreement.
3. Automobiles, or other vehicles, which are not rental vehicles and not rented from a licensed rental agency.
1. whether by the Insured Person or by any person acting on behalf of the Insured Person.
2. Any loss falling under the ‘General Exclusions’ Section of the Policy.
4. The rental of certain vehicles namely, motor homes, trailers or caravans, vans, trucks, non-passenger
carrying vehicles, vehicles that carry more than 9 people including the driver, motorcycles, mopeds,
motorbikes, off-road vehicles and recreational vehicles.
5. Expenses reimbursed by the insured person's employers' Insurer.
6. Applicable to car rental key cover – replacement of locks when only the parts need to be changed.
7. Applicable to misfueling cover – repair or replacement of any mechanical part or damage to engine
arising from the use of the incorrect fuel, i.e. only cleaning charges are payable under this section.
Endorsement no.24 – PERSONAL LIABILITY:
a. Coverage
The Company shall indemnify the Insured/ Insured Person towards legal liability of the Insured/ Insured Person to a
third party for an incident which results in accidental death, injury or damage to the health or property of such third
party whilst on a trip during the period of insurance covered by this Policy, up to the limits specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate. The incident leading to the legal liability of the Insured/ Insured Person should have occurred
during the period of insurance and whilst on a trip covered by this Policy.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Personal Liability:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of the following:
1 Any claim arising from Insured’s/ Insured Person’s personal contractual liability or through promises made
by the Insured/ Insured Person.
2 Any claim of personal liability of the Insured/ Insured Person towards his/her family, relations and travelling
Page 52 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
companions, whether personal or official.
3 Any claim resulting from transmission of an illness or disease by the Insured/ Insured Person.
4 Any claim for damage resulting from professional activities/ sports involving the Insured/ Insured Person.
5 Any claim for liability, arising directly from or due to:
a) possession of animals, birds, reptiles, insects etc. and their by- products like skin, hair, feathers, horns,
fur, ivory, bones, eggs, etc.
b) ownership or possession of vehicles, aircrafts, water crafts, or activities of the insured/insured person
involving parachuting, hand-gliding, hot air ballooning or use of fire arms.
c) Any willful, negligent, malicious or unlawful act.
d) Insanity, the use of any alcohol/drugs (except as medically prescribed) or drug addiction.
e) Any supply of goods or services on the part of the Insured/Insured Person.
f) Any ownership or occupation of land or buildings other than the occupation of any temporary
residence.
6 Any exclusion mentioned in the ‘General Exclusions’ section of this Policy.
c. Special Conditions applicable to Personal Liability:
1 The Company shall be responsible for contesting unjustified claims against the Insured/Insured Person
and providing indemnity for the damages, which the Insured/Insured Person has to pay. For indemnity to
be provided against damages, the damages must be payable under an acceptance of liability given or
approved by the Company or under a judicial decision rendered by a Court of Law.
2 If there is a legal action in process against the Insured/Insured Person over a personal liability issue, the
Company may conduct the legal action, including appointment of legal counsel, at the Company’s
expense in the name of the Insured/Insured Person at the Company’s sole discretion.
3 The Company will have the right, but in no case the obligation, to take over and conduct in the name of
the Insured/Insured Person the defense of any claim and will have full discretion in the conduct of any
proceedings and in the settlement of any claim and having taken over the defense of any claim, the
Company may relinquish the same.
4 In the event the Company, in its sole discretion, chooses to exercise its right in pursuance of this condition,
no action taken by the Company in the exercise of such right will serve to modify or expand in any manner,
what the Company’s liability or obligations under this Policy would have otherwise been had it not
exercised its rights under these Special Conditions.
Endorsement no.25 – LEGAL EXPENSES:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the legal costs and expenses incurred by the Insured/ Insured Person, as the case may
be, towards claims for from third parties for compensation for accidental death or disablement arising due to an
injury, whilst on a trip, up to the limits specified in the Policy Schedule.
The benefit under the Section is limited to the Sum Insured as specified in the Policy Schedule/certificate.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
Page 53 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Legal Expenses:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in respect of the following:
1. Any existing physical disability.
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics, hallucinogens.
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning except where these arise
from an accident.
4. Any payment under this benefit whereby the Company's liability would exceed the sum payable in the event
of accidental death.
5. Any other claim after a claim for accidental death has been admitted by the Company and becomes payable.
6. Any claim which arises out of an accident connected with the operation of an aircraft (Including Cabin Crew)
or which occurs during parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is flying as a Fare Paying
passenger in a multi-engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter company.
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person from;
a. intentional self-injury, suicide, or attempted suicide.
b. whilst under the influence of intoxication, liquor or drugs.
c. arising or resulting from the insured/insured person committing any breach of law with criminal
intent or participating in an actual or attempted felony, riot, crime, misdemeanour or civil
commotion.
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing,
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand gliding, mountaineering or rock climbing, potholing,
abseiling, deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless specifically covered and duly
mentioned in the Policy Schedule.
8. Any consequential loss or damage cost or expense of whatsoever nature.
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly caused by, contributed to or aggravated or prolonged
by childbirth, maternity or pregnancy or in consequence thereof, venereal disease or infirmity.
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist
activities.
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.26 – HOME BURGLARY INSURANCE (CONTENTS):
a. Coverage
This Section provides for indemnity, against any loss, destruction or damage to the contents of the Insured’s home in
India caused by burglary and/or housebreaking specified hereunder whilst the Insured is on a trip covered by the
Policy.
The maximum amount payable under this Section as indemnity is limited to the Sum Insured as specified in the
Policy Schedule/certificate in any one period of insurance irrespective of the number of such incidents or
occurrences arising out of such incidents.
Page 54 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Jewellery kept in safe will be covered under this benefit as part of contents up to 20% of the Sum Insured as specified
in the Policy Schedule or actuals whichever is less.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Home Burglary Insurance (contents):
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for:
1. Loss or damage caused by the Insured/Insured Person's and/or Insured/Insured Person's employee(s) or
agents and/ or Insured/Insured Person's Family member's direct or indirect involvement in the actual or
attempted burglary.
2. Any loss or damage to, or on account of loss of, livestock, motor vehicles, pedal cycles, money, securities for
money, stamp, bullion, deeds, bonds, bills of exchange, promissory notes, stock or share certificates, business
books, manuscripts, documents of any kind, ATM debit or credit cards, precious stones that are not part of
jewellery or ornaments, gold bullion (unless previously specifically declared to, and accepted by, the Company
in writing.
3. Loss or damage to any property/item illegally acquired, kept, stored or property subject to forfeiture in any
manner whatsoever.
4. Loss or damage which is recoverable under Fire or Plate Glass Insurance Policy or any other policy.
5. Loss or damage directly or indirectly, proximately or remotely occasioned by or which arises out of or in
connection with riot and strike, civil commotion, terrorist activities, earthquake, flood, storm, volcanic eruption,
typhoon, hurricane, tornado, cyclone or other convulsions of nature or atmospheric disturbances.
6. Consequential loss or legal liability of any kind.
7. Loss of money and/or other property abstracted from safe following the use of the key to the said safe or any
duplicate thereof belonging to the Insured, unless such key has been obtained by assault or violence or any
threat thereof.
8. Loss of or damage to any property insured under this Policy due to any misfeasance, malfeasance or
nonfeasance or breach of trust in relation thereto by the Insured.
9. Any exclusion mentioned in the ‘General Exclusions’ section of this Policy.
Terrorism Damage Exclusion Warranty:
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary within this insurance it is agreed that this insurance excludes loss,
damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by, resulting from or in connection with
any act of terrorism regardless of any other cause or event contributing concurrently or in any other sequence to
the loss.
For the purpose of this endorsement an act of terrorism means an act, including but not limited to the use of force
of violence and/or the threat thereof, of any person or group(s) of persons whether acting alone or on behalf of or
in connection with any organization(s) or government(s), committed for political, religious, ideological or similar
purpose including the intention to influence any government and/or to put the public, or any section of the public in
fear.
The warranty also excludes loss, damage, cost or expense of whatsoever nature directly or indirectly caused by,
resulting from or in connection with any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to
action taken in respect of any act of terrorism.
Page 55 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
If the Company alleges that by reason of this exclusion, any loss, damage, cost or expenses is not covered by this
insurance the burden of proving the contrary shall be upon the Insured.
In the event any portion of this endorsement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder shall remain in
full force and effect.
Endorsement no.27 –CHOLA MS BHARAT GRIHA RAKSHA POLICY:
Special meaning of certain words: Words stated in the table below have a special meaning throughout this Policy,
the Policy Schedule and Endorsements.
These words with special meaning are stated in the Policy with the first letter in capitals.
Word /s Specific meaning
Bank A bank or any financial institution
Carpet Area 1. for the main building unit of Your Home, it is the net usable floor area, excluding the
area covered by the external walls, areas under services shafts, exclusive balcony
or verandah area and exclusive open terrace area, but including the area covered
by the internal partition walls of the residential unit;
2. for any enclosed structure on the same site, it is the net usable floor area of such
structure; and
3. for any balcony, verandah area, terrace area, parking area, or any enclosed structure
that is part of Your Home, it is 25% of its net usable floor area.
Commencement It is the date and time from which the insurance cover under this Policy begins.
Date It is shown in the Policy Schedule.
Cost of Construction The amount required to construct Your Home Building at the Commencement Date.
This amount is calculated as follows:
a. For residential structure of Your Home including Fittings and Fixtures:
Carpet Area of the structure in square metres X Rate of Cost of Construction at the
Commencement Date. The Rate of Cost of Construction is the prevailing rate of cost of
construction of Your Home Building at the Commencement Date as declared b y
You and accepted by Us and shown in the Policy schedule.
b. For additional structures : the amount that is based on the prevailing rate of Cost
of Construction at the Commencement Date as declared by You and
accepted by Us.
Endorsement A written amendment to the Policy that We make (additions, deletions, modifications,
exclusions or conditions of an insurance Policy) which may change the terms or scope of
the original policy.
Home Contents Those articles or things in Your Home that are not permanently attached or fixed to the
structure of Your Home. Home Contents may consist of General Contents and/or Valuable
Contents.
General Contents General Contents are all the contents of household use in Your Home, e.g., furniture,
electronic items and goods, antennae, solar panels, water storage equipment, kitchen
Page 56 of 101

Table Row: Word /s | Specific meaning

Table Row: Bank | A bank or any financial institution

Table Row: Carpet Area | 1. for the main building unit of Your Home, it is the net usable floor area, excluding the
area covered by the external walls, areas under services shafts, exclusive balcony
or verandah area and exclusive open terrace area, but including the area covered
by the internal partition walls of the residential unit;
2. for any enclosed structure on the same site, it is the net usable floor area of such
structure; and
3. for any balcony, verandah area, terrace area, parking area, or any enclosed structure
that is part of Your Home, it is 25% of its net usable floor area.

Table Row: Commencement
Date | It is the date and time from which the insurance cover under this Policy begins.
It is shown in the Policy Schedule.

Table Row: Cost of Construction | The amount required to construct Your Home Building at the Commencement Date.
This amount is calculated as follows:
a. For residential structure of Your Home including Fittings and Fixtures:
Carpet Area of the structure in square metres X Rate of Cost of Construction at the
Commencement Date. The Rate of Cost of Construction is the prevailing rate of cost of
construction of Your Home Building at the Commencement Date as declared b y
You and accepted by Us and shown in the Policy schedule.
b. For additional structures : the amount that is based on the prevailing rate of Cost
of Construction at the Commencement Date as declared by You and
accepted by Us.

Table Row: Endorsement | A written amendment to the Policy that We make (additions, deletions, modifications,
exclusions or conditions of an insurance Policy) which may change the terms or scope of
the original policy.

Table Row: Home Contents | Those articles or things in Your Home that are not permanently attached or fixed to the
structure of Your Home. Home Contents may consist of General Contents and/or Valuable
Contents.

Table Row: General Contents | General Contents are all the contents of household use in Your Home, e.g., furniture,
electronic items and goods, antennae, solar panels, water storage equipment, kitchen

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
equipment, electrical equipment (including those fitted on walls ), clothing and apparel
and items of similar nature.
Valuable Contents Valuable Contents of Your Home consist of items such as jewellery, silverware, paintings,
works of art, antique items, curios and items of similar nature.
Insured The Person/s who has/have purchased Insurance Cover under this Policy.
Insured Property Your Home Building and Home Contents, or any item of property covered by this Policy.
Kutcha Construction Building(s) having walls and/or roofs of wooden planks/thatched leaves and/or grass/hay
of any kind/bamboo/plastic cloth/asphalt/canvas/tarpaulin and the like.
Word /s Specific meaning
Policy Period Policy period means the period commencing from the effective date and time as shown
in the Policy Schedule and terminating at Midnight on the expiry date as shown in the
Policy Schedule or on the termination of or the cancellation of insurance as provided for
in Clause G (III) of this Policy, whichever is earlier.
Policy Schedule The document accompanying and forming part of the Policy that gives Your details and
of Your insurance cover, as described in Clause A (3) of this Policy.
Premium The premium is the amount You pay Us for this insurance. The Policy Schedule shows the
amount of premium for the Policy Period and all other taxes and levies.
Pucca Construction Construction other than Kutcha Construction.
Spouse Your wife or husband.
Sum Insured The amount shown as Sum Insured in the Policy Schedule and as described in Clause C (4)
and Clause D (2) of this Policy. It represents Our maximum liability for each cover or part
of cover and for each
loss.
Total Loss A situation where the Insured Property or item is completely destroyed, lost or
damaged beyond retrieval or repair or the cost of repairing it is more than the Sum Insured
for that item or in total.
We, Us, Our, Insurer The Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Ltd. Insurance Company that has
provided Insurance Cover under this Policy; of the Company.
You, Your, Insured The Insured Person/s who has/have purchased Insurance Cover
under this Policy; of such Insured Person/s.
Your Home Building Your Home Building is a building consisting of a residential unit, having an enclosed
structure and a roof, basement (if any) and used as a dwelling place described in detail as
per Clause C (2) of this Policy.
Clause B. Insured Events
We give insurance cover for physical loss or damage, or destruction caused to Insured Property by the following
unforeseen events occurring during the Policy Period.
The events covered are given in Column A and those not covered in respect of these events are given in Column
B.
Column A Column B
Page 57 of 101

Table Row:  | equipment, electrical equipment (including those fitted on walls ), clothing and apparel
and items of similar nature.

Table Row: Valuable Contents | Valuable Contents of Your Home consist of items such as jewellery, silverware, paintings,
works of art, antique items, curios and items of similar nature.

Table Row: Insured | The Person/s who has/have purchased Insurance Cover under this Policy.

Table Row: Insured Property | Your Home Building and Home Contents, or any item of property covered by this Policy.

Table Row: Kutcha Construction | Building(s) having walls and/or roofs of wooden planks/thatched leaves and/or grass/hay
of any kind/bamboo/plastic cloth/asphalt/canvas/tarpaulin and the like.

Table Row: Word /s | Specific meaning

Table Row: Policy Period | Policy period means the period commencing from the effective date and time as shown
in the Policy Schedule and terminating at Midnight on the expiry date as shown in the
Policy Schedule or on the termination of or the cancellation of insurance as provided for
in Clause G (III) of this Policy, whichever is earlier.

Table Row: Policy Schedule | The document accompanying and forming part of the Policy that gives Your details and
of Your insurance cover, as described in Clause A (3) of this Policy.

Table Row: Premium | The premium is the amount You pay Us for this insurance. The Policy Schedule shows the
amount of premium for the Policy Period and all other taxes and levies.

Table Row: Pucca Construction | Construction other than Kutcha Construction.

Table Row: Spouse | Your wife or husband.

Table Row: Sum Insured | The amount shown as Sum Insured in the Policy Schedule and as described in Clause C (4)
and Clause D (2) of this Policy. It represents Our maximum liability for each cover or part
of cover and for each
loss.

Table Row: Total Loss | A situation where the Insured Property or item is completely destroyed, lost or
damaged beyond retrieval or repair or the cost of repairing it is more than the Sum Insured
for that item or in total.

Table Row: We, Us, Our, Insurer | The Cholamandalam MS General Insurance Company Ltd. Insurance Company that has
provided Insurance Cover under this Policy; of the Company.

Table Row: You, Your, Insured | The Insured Person/s who has/have purchased Insurance Cover
under this Policy; of such Insured Person/s.

Table Row: Your Home Building | Your Home Building is a building consisting of a residential unit, having an enclosed
structure and a roof, basement (if any) and used as a dwelling place described in detail as
per Clause C (2) of this Policy.

Table Row:  | Column A | Column B

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property by caused to the Insured Property
1. Fire caused by burning of Insured Property by order of
any Public Authority.
2. Explosion or Implosion -
3. Lightning -
4. Earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other -
convulsions of nature
5. Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane, -
Tornado, Tsunami, Flood and Inundation
Column A Column B
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property by caused to the Insured Property
6. Subsidence of the land on which Your Home caused by
Building stands, Landslide, Rockslide a. normal cracking, settlement or bedding down
of new structures,
b. the settlement or movement of made up
ground,
c. coastal or river erosion,
d. defective design or
workmanship or use of defective materials, or
e. demolition, construction,
structural alterations or repair of any property,
or groundworks or excavations.
7. Bush fire, Forest fire, Jungle fire -
8. Impact damage of any kind, i.e., damage caused caused by pressure waves caused by aircraft or
by impact of, or collision caused by any external other aerial or space devices travelling at sonic or
physical object (e.g. vehicle, falling trees, aircraft, supersonic speeds.
wall etc.)
9. Missile testing operations -
10. Riot, Strikes, Malicious Damages caused by
a. temporary or permanent dispossession,
confiscation, commandeering, requisition or
destruction by order of the government or any
lawful authority,
or
b. temporary or permanent dispossession of Your
Home by unlawful occupation by any person.
11 Acts of terrorism Exclusions and Excess as per
(Coverage as per Terrorism Clause attached) Terrorism Clause attached.
Page 58 of 101

Table Row:  | We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property by | We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property

Table Row: 1. | Fire | caused by burning of Insured Property by order of
any Public Authority.

Table Row: 2. | Explosion or Implosion | -

Table Row: 3. | Lightning | -

Table Row: 4. | Earthquake, volcanic eruption, or other
convulsions of nature | -

Table Row: 5. | Storm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane,
Tornado, Tsunami, Flood and Inundation | -

Table Row:  | Column A | Column B

Table Row:  | We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property by | We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property

Table Row: 6. | Subsidence of the land on which Your Home
Building stands, Landslide, Rockslide | caused by
a. normal cracking, settlement or bedding down
of new structures,
b. the settlement or movement of made up
ground,
c. coastal or river erosion,
d. defective design or
workmanship or use of defective materials, or
e. demolition, construction,
structural alterations or repair of any property,
or groundworks or excavations.

Table Row: 7. | Bush fire, Forest fire, Jungle fire | -

Table Row: 8. | Impact damage of any kind, i.e., damage caused
by impact of, or collision caused by any external
physical object (e.g. vehicle, falling trees, aircraft,
wall etc.) | caused by pressure waves caused by aircraft or
other aerial or space devices travelling at sonic or
supersonic speeds.

Table Row: 9. | Missile testing operations | -

Table Row: 10. | Riot, Strikes, Malicious Damages | caused by
a. temporary or permanent dispossession,
confiscation, commandeering, requisition or
destruction by order of the government or any
lawful authority,
or
b. temporary or permanent dispossession of Your
Home by unlawful occupation by any person.

Table Row: 11 | Acts of terrorism
(Coverage as per Terrorism Clause attached) | Exclusions and Excess as per
Terrorism Clause attached.

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property by caused to the Insured Property
12. Bursting or overflowing of water tanks, apparatus
and pipes. -
13. Leakage from automatic sprinkler installations. a. repairs or alterations in Your Home or the
building in which Your Home is located,
b. repairs, removal or extension of any sprinkler
installation, or
c. defects in the construction known to You.
14. Theft within 7 (seven )days from the occurrence of if it is
and proximately caused by any of the above a. of any article or thing outside Your Home, or
Insured Events. b. of any article or thing attached from the
outside of the outer walls or the roof of Your
Home, unless securely mounted.
Clause C: Home Building Cover
1. What We cover
We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction of Your Home Building because of any Insured
Event listed in Clause B of this Policy. We also cover architect’s, surveyor’s, consulting
engineer’s fees, cost of removing debris as specified under Clause C (5) (f) of this Policy. Further,
We pay for Loss of rent and Rent for Alternative Accommodation, which will be paid to the
extent declared by You and agreed by Us as specified under Clause C (6) of this Policy while
Your Home Building is not fit for living following loss or damage due to an insured event.
2. Your Home Building
a. Your Home Building is a building consisting of a residential unit, having an enclosed
structure and a roof, basement (if any) and used as a dwelling place.
b. Your Home Building includes
i. fixtures and fittings permanently attached to the floor, walls or roof, like fixed
sanitary fittings, electrical wiring and other permanent fittings.
ii. the following ‘additional structures’ if they are on the same site, and are used as part
of Your Home Building:
a) garage, domestic out-houses used for residence, parking spaces or
areas, if any
b) compound walls, fences, gates, retaining walls and internal roads,
c) verandah or porch and the like,
d) septic tanks, bio-gas plants, fixed water storage units or tanks,
e) solar panels, wind turbines and air conditioning systems, central
heating systems and the like, if not included in Home Contents Cover,
iii. any other structure shown in the Policy Schedule.
c. Your Home Building does not include Contents of Your Home.
3. Use for residence
a. We will pay only if Your Home Building is used for the purpose of residence of Yourself and
Page 59 of 101

Table Row:  | We cover physical loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property by | We do not cover any loss or damage, or destruction
caused to the Insured Property

Table Row: 12. | Bursting or overflowing of water tanks, apparatus
and pipes. | -

Table Row: 13. | Leakage from automatic sprinkler installations. | a. repairs or alterations in Your Home or the
building in which Your Home is located,
b. repairs, removal or extension of any sprinkler
installation, or
c. defects in the construction known to You.

Table Row: 14. | Theft within 7 (seven )days from the occurrence of
and proximately caused by any of the above
Insured Events. | if it is
a. of any article or thing outside Your Home, or
b. of any article or thing attached from the
outside of the outer walls or the roof of Your
Home, unless securely mounted.

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Your family, or of Your tenant, licensee or employee.
b. We will not pay if
i. Your Home Building is used as a holiday home, or for lodging and boarding, or
ii. Your Home Building or any part of Your Home Building is used for purposes other
than residential except where it is used both for Your residence and for the purposes
of earning Your livelihood if You are self- employed or You have shifted Your office to
Your Home Building for a temporary period due to lockdown or closure of Your office
ordered by a public authority.
4. Sum Insured
a. The Sum Insured for the Home Building Cover is the prevailing Cost of Construction of Your
Home Building at the Commencement Date as declared by You and accepted by Us and will
be the maximum amount payable in the event the Home Building is a Total Loss.
b. If the Policy Period is more than one year, We will automatically increase Your Sum Insured
during the Policy Period by 10% per annum on each anniversary of Your Policy without
additional premium for a maximum of 100% of the Sum Insured at the Policy
Commencement Date.
c. The Sum Insured will be automatically increased each day by an amount representing
1/365th of 10% of Sum Insured at the Policy Commencement Date for annual policies.
d. Restoration of Sum Insured : Except as stated in Clause G (III) (3) (b) of this Policy, the
insurance cover will at all times be maintained during the Policy Period to the full extent of
the respective Sum Insured. This means that after We have paid for any loss, the policy shall
be restored to the full original amount of Sum Insured. You must pay to Us proportionate
premium for the unexpired Policy Period from the date of loss. We can also deduct this
premium from the net claim that We must pay You.
5. What We pay
a. If You make a claim under the policy for damage to Your Home Building due to any of the
insured perils, We reimburse the cost to repair it to a condition substantially the same as its
condition at the time of damage. You must spend for repairs, and claim that amount from
Us.
b. We will calculate the amount of claim on the basis of the actual Carpet Area subject to the
Carpet Area not exceeding that declared by You in the Proposal Form and stated in the Policy
Schedule.
c. The maximum We will pay for all items together is the Sum Insured shown in the Policy
Schedule for Home Building Cover. If the Policy Schedule shows any limit for any item, such
limit is the maximum We will pay for that item.
d. If Your Home Building is a Total Loss, We will pay You the Sum Insured of the Home Building.
e. If only an additional structure is destroyed, We will pay You an amount equal to the Cost of
Construction of the additional structure.
f. In addition to what Clause C (5) (c) of this Policy provides for, We will pay You the following
expenses:
i. up to 5% of the claim amount for reasonable fees of architect, surveyor,
consulting engineer;
ii. up to 2 % of the claim amount for reasonable costs of removing debris from the
site.
6. Loss of Rent and Rent for Alternative Accommodation: In addition to what Clause C (5) (c) of
Page 60 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
this Policy provides for, We will pay the amount of rent You lose or alternative rent You pay
while Your Home Building is not fit for living because of physical loss arising out of an Insured
Event as follows:
a. If You are living in Your Home as a tenant, and You are required to pay higher rent for the
alternative accommodation, We will pay the difference between the rent for alternative
accommodation and the rent of Your Home Building.
b. We will pay the loss under this cover for an accommodation that is not superior to Your Home
Building in any way and in the same city as Your Home Building.
c. The amount of lost rent shall be calculated as follows: Sum Insured for
Cover for Loss of Rent (as declared by You in the Proposal Form and specified by Us in the
Policy Schedule) X Period necessary for repairs ÷ Loss of Rent Period opted for.
d. This cover will be available for the reasonable time required to repair Your Home Building
to make it fit for living. The maximum period of this cover is three years from the date Your
Home Building becomes unfit for living. You must submit a certificate from an architect or
the local authority to show that Your Home Building is not fit for living.
e. Claim for loss of rent will be accepted only if We have accepted Your claim for loss for physical
damage to Your Home under the Home Building Cover.
Clause D: Home Contents Cover
1. What We cover:
We cover the physical loss or damage to or destruction of the General Contents of Your Home
caused by an Insured Event as listed in Clause B of this Policy. Valuable Contents of Your Home
are not covered under this Policy unless You have purchased the optional cover for the Valuable
Contents.
2. Sum Insured:
a. The Sum Insured for the Home Contents Cover is shown in the Policy Schedule and will be
the maximum amount payable in the event the Home Contents are destroyed/lost
completely.
b. The policy has a built-in cover for the General Contents of Your home equal to 20% of the
Sum Insured for Home Building Cover subject to a maximum of
₹ 10 Lakh (Rupees Ten Lakh) provided You have opted for both Home Building and Home
Contents cover. If You choose to have a higher Sum Insured for Home Contents, You have
to declare the Sum Insured in the Proposal Form and pay additional premium.
c. If You have purchased only Home Contents Cover, You have to declare the Sum Insured for
the General Contents in the Proposal Form.
d. The Sum Insured You have chosen for General Contents must be enough to cover the cost
of replacement of the General Contents.
e. If You want to cover the Valuable Contents in Your Home, You must opt for the Optional
Cover for Valuable Contents as given in Clause E (1) (a) of this Policy.
f. Restoration of Sum Insured: Except as stated in Clause G (III) (3) (b) of this Clause below,
the insurance cover will at all times be maintained during the Policy Period to the full extent
of the respective Sum Insured. This means that after We have paid for any loss, the policy
shall be restored to the full original amount of Sum Insured. You must pay to Us
proportionate premium for the unexpired Policy Period from the date of loss. We can also
deduct this premium from the net claim that We must pay You.
3. What We pay
Page 61 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
a. If the General Contents of Your Home are physically damaged by any Insured Event, We will
at Our option,
i. reimburse to You the cost of repairs to a condition substantially the same as its
condition at the time of damage, or
ii. pay You the cost of replacing that item with a same or similar item, or
iii. repair the damaged item to a condition substantially the same as its condition
at the time of damage.
b. The maximum We will pay for Home Contents is the Sum Insured shown in the Policy
Schedule for Home Contents Cover. If the Policy Schedule shows any limit for any item, or
category or groups of items, such limit is the maximum We will pay for that item.
Clause E: Additional Covers applicable : Not applicable
Clause F. Exclusions (What We do not cover) under Chola Ms Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
We do not cover losses and expenses for any loss or damage or destruction of the Insured Property
that is directly or indirectly as a result of or is caused by or arising from events, stated below:
1. Your deliberate, wilful or intentional act or ommission, or of anyone on Your behalf, or with Your
connivance.
2. War, invasion, act of foreign enemy hostilities or war-like operations (whether war is declared or
not), civil war, mutiny, civil commotion amounting to a popular rising, military rising, rebellion,
revolution, insurrection or military or usurped power.
3. Ionising radiation or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear
waste from combustion of nuclear fuel, or the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous
properties of any explosive nuclear assembly or nuclear component that is part of it.
4. Pollution or contamination, unless
i. the pollution or contamination itself has resulted from an Insured Event, or
ii. an Insured Event itself results from pollution or contamination.
5. Loss, damage or destruction to any electrical/electronic machine, apparatus, fixture, or fitting by
over-running, excessive pressure, short circuiting, arcing, self- heating or leakage of electricity
from whatever cause (lightning included). This exclusion applies only to the particular machine
so lost, damaged or destroyed.
6. Loss or damage to bullion or unset precious stones, manuscripts, plans, drawings, securities,
obligations or documents of any kind, coins or paper money, cheques, vehicles, and explosive
substances unless otherwise expressly stated in the policy.
7. Loss of any Insured Property which is missing or has been mislaid, or its disappearance cannot
be linked to any single identifiable event.
8. Loss or damage to any Insured Property removed from Your Home to any other place.
9. Loss of earnings, loss by delay, loss of market or other consequential or indirect loss or damage
of any kind or description whatsoever.
10. Any reduction in market value of any Insured Property after its repair or reinstatement.
11. Any addition, extension, or alteration to any structure of Your Home Building that increases its
Carpet Area by more than 10% of the Carpet Area existing at the Commencement Date or on the
date of renewal of this Policy, unless You have paid additional premium and such addition,
Page 62 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
extension or alteration is added by Endorsement.
12. Costs, fees or expenses for preparing any claim.
Clause G. Conditions applicable to Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
(I) Your Obligations
1. Make true and full disclosure in the proposal and related documents
a. You have a duty of disclosure to tell Us everything You know, or could reasonably be
expected to know, that is relevant to Us for deciding whether to give You insurance cover
and on what terms. You owe this duty to disclose such relevant material information even
if We have not specifically asked for it. This duty extends to any information or declaration
given by anyone else on Your behalf.
b. We have agreed to give You insurance cover entirely on the basis of the information You, or
anyone on Your behalf, have given Us in the proposal, statements and other declarations
and documents (in writing or electronic) about Yourself, Your family, Your Home Building
and Home Contents. The correct and complete information You give is the basis of Our
contract with You. Our promise to pay is conditional upon the truth of these statements and
on the assumption that You, or anyone on Your behalf, has not withheld any material
information about Yourself, Your family, Your Home Building and Home Contents.
2. Obligation to take care : You must:
a. keep Your Home Building and Home Contents in good condition and well maintained, You
must ensure that the structure of Your Home Building does not have any faults or defects
that are visible and material that will aggravate loss or damage to the Home Building in the
event an insured peril occurs.
b. take care to prevent theft, loss or damage to Your Home Building and Home Contents, and
c. ensure that unauthorized persons do not occupy Your Home Building.
3. Inform change in circumstances : You must inform Us immediately if
a. You change Your address,
b. You make any addition, alteration, extension to the structure of Your Home Building,
c. You let out Your Home Building, or Your Home Building will no longer be solely occupied by
You,
d. You change the use of Your Home Building.
4. Allow inspection and investigation of claim: You must allow, and give full cooperation to the
survey/investigation of Your claim by Us. You must allow Us, and any surveyor, officer or other
representative that We authorise, to inspect Your Home Building and Home Contents including
the interior wherever necessary, take photographs and where required, permit the scientific
testing and investigation of any insured article affected by the insured peril. You must answer all
questions asked regarding Your claim truthfully and completely, and submit all relevant
documents that We will require.
5. Make true statements and full disclosure in the claim and related documents You must also give
true and full information in Your claim and submit true documents. If You give any false
information or document in the claim, or if You withhold any information or document (written
or electronic), We have a right to refuse payment of Your claim. We may also cancel Your policy.
6. Cancellation and Termination of Cover under Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
1. Cancellation by You at any Time
a. You can cancel this cover at any time by giving Us notice in writing. The cover will terminate
Page 63 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
when we receive your notice.
b. If You cancel the cover, We will refund premium as follows:
Time for which cover in force Refund of premium
For a period not exceeding 15 days 90% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 15 days to 1 month 85% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 1 month to 2 months 70% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 2 month to 3 months 60% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 3 month to 4 months 50% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 4 month to 5 months 40% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 5 month to 6 months 30% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 6 month to 7 months 25% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 7 month to 8 months 20% of the Annual rate
Exceeding 8 month to 9 months 15% of the Annual rate
For the period Exceeding 9 months No Refund
c. Cancellation of Long Term cover
No refund shall be allowed if there has been a claim under the cover.
1. If the cover is cancelled within 1 years of inception, the premium to be retained shall be worked out
as per normal rates applicable - that is without allowing any discount.
2. If the cover is cancelled after 1 years of inception, the discount slab shall be reworked for the
number of years the cover was actually in force. For this purpose fraction of a year shall be rounded to
the next higher year. For example if the cover has run for 1 years and 1 months, premium shall be
retained for 2 years.
3. Refund, if any, shall be subject to the retention of minimum premium of Rs.100 for annual cover and
for cover Rs.250/-
2. Cancellation by Us:
a. We will not cancel the Policy during the policy period except on the grounds of mis-
representation, non-disclosure of material facts, fraud or non-co- operation on Your part.
b. In case of Total Loss of Your Home Building in a long term policy where You have decided
not to reinstate Your Home Building in favour of a cash settlement of Your claim, We will
cancel the cover for the remaining duration of the policy period. In such a case We shall
refund the proportionate premium for the un-expired policy years after grossing up the
premium paid by You towards long term discount, if any.
3. Automatic termination of the Cover:
This cover will automatically end in the following cases:
a. Destruction of Your Home Building: This cover will automatically end 7 (seven) days after
Your Home Building collapses or is destroyed by reason other than any Insured Event. If a
separable part of Your Home Building, or any additional structure falls down or is destroyed
by reason other than any Insured Event, the covers will end for such part or additional
Page 64 of 101

Table Row: Time for which cover in force | Refund of premium

Table Row: For a period not exceeding 15 days | 90% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 15 days to 1 month | 85% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 1 month to 2 months | 70% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 2 month to 3 months | 60% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 3 month to 4 months | 50% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 4 month to 5 months | 40% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 5 month to 6 months | 30% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 6 month to 7 months | 25% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 7 month to 8 months | 20% of the Annual rate

Table Row: Exceeding 8 month to 9 months | 15% of the Annual rate

Table Row: For the period Exceeding 9 months | No Refund

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
structure.
You can apply within 7 (seven) days of such fall or destruction for continuing insurance
cover. We may agree, but will not be bound, to continue the cover on the same rates,
terms and conditions.
b. Exhaustion of Sum Insured: If Your Home Building, or any additional structure, or any item
of Home Contents, is lost, destroyed or stolen, or is a Total Loss, and We pay You the full
Sum Insured for such item, the insurance cover for that item will automatically end unless the
subject matter of insurance is reconstructed and the Sum Insured is reinstated by paying
additional premium. If We pay the total Sum Insured for any claim, this Policy will end.
c. Change of use of Your Home Building or Home Contents: The Policy will end
i. if You change the use of Your Home Building from personal residence to any other
purpose, or
ii. if You use any item of Home Contents for use that is not personal.
d. Sale of Your Home Building or Home Contents: This Policy will end when You sell, surrender
or release Your interest in Your Home Building and/or Home Contents, or Your interest in
the Home Building and/or Home Contents comes to an end. The Policy will end to the extent
any additional structure of Your Home Building or item of Home Contents if You sell,
surrender or release Your interest in such additional structure or item of Home Content, or
Your interest in these ends.
e. Effect of death
In the event of the unfortunate death of the Insured during the Policy Period, the Home
Building Cover and the Home Contents Cover that You have purchased will continue for
the benefit of Your legal representative/s during the Policy Period subject to all the terms
and conditions of this Policy.
7. Claims Procedure applicable for Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
If You suffer a loss because of an Insured Event, You must make a claim for Your financial loss at
Your cost. The procedure for making a claim is given below. These include things that You must do,
and that You must not do. It is important to comply with these to ensure that it does not prejudice
Your claim in any manner.
1. Immediate notice to Us
a. As soon as any physical loss or damage occurs to Your Home Building or Home Contents due
to an Insured Event, You must immediately give notice to Us of the loss or damage. This is
necessary for Us to survey/ investigate the loss or damage, as may be required.
b. You can give notice to any of Our offices or call-centres.
c. You must state in this notice
i. the Certificate Number,
ii. Your name,
iii. details of report to the police that You made,
iv. details of report to any Authority that You made,
v. details of the Insured Event,
vi. a brief statement of the loss,
vii. particulars of any other insurance of Your Home Building or any of Your Home
Contents,
viii. details of loss or damage under any Optional Cover or Add-ons,
ix. submit photographs of loss or physical damage, wherever possible.
Page 65 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
2. Steps to prevent loss and damage
a. You must take all reasonable steps to prevent further loss or damage to Your Home Building
and Home Contents.
b. Until We have inspected Your Home Building and Home Contents, and have given Our
consent,
i. You must not sell, give away or dispose of any damaged items of any property for
which You are making a claim;
ii. You must not wash or clean, or remove any damaged item or debris, except for any
urgent necessity;
iii. You must not carry out repairs, unless such repairs are urgent and You cannot
contact Us.
3. Immediate notice to Authorities
a. As soon as any loss or damage occurs to the Insured Property, You must give immediate
report to appropriate legal authorities. For example, You must report to the fire brigade of
the local authority and the police if there is damage by fire/ explosion / implosion or
lightning. In case of subsidence
/landslide/rockslide, You must inform the District Administration. In the event of impact
damage of any kind or Riot Strikes, Malicious damages and acts of terrorism, You must
inform the police. If there is a theft within 7 (seven) days following an Insured Event You
must inform the police.
b. We may, but not necessarily, waive this condition if We are satisfied that by reason of
extreme hardship it was not possible for You or any other person on Your behalf to give such
report.
4. Submit claim
a. Claim form:
i. You must submit Your claim in Our claim form at the earliest opportunity, but within
30 days from the date You first notice the loss or damage. The claim form is available
in any of Our branches, and on Our web-site.
ii. You must state in Your claim the details of any other insurance policy that covers the
damage or loss for which You have filed Your claim, whether You have purchased
such other insurance, or someone else has purchased it for You.
b. We shall not be liable for any loss or damage after the expiry of 12 months from the
happening of the loss or damage unless the claim is the subject of pending action or
arbitration. If We disclaim liability for a claim You have made and if the claim is not made a
subject matter of a suit in a court of law within a period of 12 months from the date of
disclaimer, the claim shall not be recoverable hereunder.
5. Establish loss
a. You must prove that the Insured Event has occurred, and the extent of physical loss or
damage You have suffered with full details.
b. When We request,
i. You must support Your claim for Home Building and/or Home Contents with plans,
specification books, vouchers, invoices pertaining to costs incurred by You for
reconstruction/replacement/repairs.
ii. You must allow Us, Our officers, surveyors or representatives to inspect the loss or
damage to Your Home Building and/or Home Contents, and to take measurements,
samples, damaged items or parts, and photographs that are relevant.
Page 66 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
iii. You must give Us authority to see the relevant records and get information about
the Event and Your loss from the police or any other authority.
c. For Optional Cover of Personal Accident, Death Certificate and Post Mortem report
(wherever necessary) shall be submitted.
6. Fraudulent claim
If You, or anyone on Your behalf, make a false or fraudulent claim , or support a claim with any
false or fraudulent statement or documents:
i. We will not pay,
ii. We can cancel the Policy: in such a case, You will lose all benefits under this Policy and
premium that You have paid, and
iii. We can also inform the police, and start legal proceedings against You.
7. Other insurance
a. If You have any other policy with Us or any other Insurance Company (taken by You or by
anyone else for You) covering in whole or in part any claim that You have made under this
Cover, You have a right to ask for settlement of Your claim under any of these policies.
b. If You choose to claim under this cover from Us, We will settle Your claim within the limits
and the terms and conditions of this cover.
c. After We pay the amount under Your claim, We have the right to ask for contribution from
the Insurers that have given You the other policies.
d. We will ensure that Our actions do not impose any liability on You.
8. Recovery action by Us
a. When We accept and pay Your claim under the cover, We can start legal proceedings to
recover the amount or property from the third party who has caused the loss or damage to
Your Home Building or Home Contents. You must give authority to Us to take such action and
exercise this right effectively, when We request You, whether before or after making
payment of Your claim. You must give all information, cooperation, assistance and help for
this purpose. You must not do anything which will prejudice Our right. We can do this
i. without seeking Your consent,
ii. in Your name, and
iii. whether or not Your loss has been fully compensated.
b. Any amount We recover from such person will be applied first to the costs of the legal
proceedings and recovery, then to the claim amount We have paid or must pay to You. We
will pay You any balance.
c. You can start legal proceedings against any person who has caused the loss or damage only
with Our prior consent, and on conditions that We will impose. You must not compromise or
settle any claim against such person without Our consent. If You recover any amount from
such person, You must return to Us the amount We have paid for Your claim. We can take
over the conduct of legal proceedings that You have started and continue the proceedings in
Your name.
Clause H. Changes to covers applicable to Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
a. You can choose to make changes to the covers of this Endorsement as may be permitted by
Us, or increase or reduce any Sum Insured. You must make a proposal or request for any
change. It will be effective only after We have accepted Your proposal, and You have paid
the additional premium, where applicable.
b. This Policy (including the Policy Schedule, the proposal, declarations and Endorsements)
consists of the entire contract between You and Us.
Page 67 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Clause I. Waiver of Underinsurance applicable to Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha Policy
Underinsurance does not apply to the Bharat Griha Raksha Policy. Thus, if Your Sum
Insured calculated on the basis of the information that You provided, is less than the actual
value at risk, the difference will not affect the amount We pay.
Clause J. Other Details
1. Notices
a. We will send any notice, letter or communication in writing to You at Your address
mentioned in the Policy Schedule, and to Your email address that You have registered with
Us.
b. You will send any notice, letter, intimation or communication in writing to Us at Our branch
office where You purchased this Policy. You can also send it at the address mentioned in the
Policy Schedule.
2. Nomination for this Policy
You can nominate a person to receive the claim amount under this Policy in the event of Your
death. You can make such nomination at the time You take the Policy, or later. You can also
change the nomination at any time. You can make the nomination on Our nomination form
available in Our office or from Our website:www.cholainsurance.com
3. Arbitration
If any dispute or difference arises between You and Us regarding the amount of claim to be paid
under this policy (liability having been admitted by Us), such difference shall independently of
all other questions, be referred to the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in writing by
You and Us or if You and We cannot agree upon a single arbitrator within 30 days of either of Us
opting for arbitration, the same shall be referred to a panel of three arbitrators comprising of two
arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of Us, to the dispute/difference and the third arbitrator
to be appointed by two such arbitrators and arbitration shall be conducted under and in
accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
This benefit is over and above the base Sum Insured. Claim under Chola MS Bharat Griha Raksha will be treated as
per policy terms and conditions, irrespective of claim settlement under Base CI or PA cover during the policy period
4. Territorial Limits:
The Insurer’s liability to make any payment under this section will be for Insured contingencies occurring within
the premises named in the Policy.
Endorsement no.28 – FINANCIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE:
a. Coverage
In the event the Insured requires financial emergency Assistance following incidents ie. Burglary/ theft of luggage/
money or hold up. The Assistance Service provider shall co- ordinate with the Insured’s relatives within India to
provide emergency cash assistance to the Insured per Insured’s requirement, and make payment for transfer charges
which has been made through Assistance Service Provider up to the limit of Sum Insured specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Page 68 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Endorsement no.28A – FINANCIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
In the event the Insured requires financial emergency Assistance following incidents ie. Burglary/ theft of luggage/
money or hold up. The Assistance Service provider shall co- ordinate with the Insured’s relatives within India to
provide emergency cash assistance to the Insured per Insured’s requirement, and pay a fixed benefit towards transfer
charges which has been made through Assistance Service Provider as specified in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.29 – PET CARE:
a. Coverage
This policy shall reimburse medical expenses including fees for the Veterinary Medical Practitioner’s fees towards
the medical care and treatment of the pet animal (limited to cat or dog) of the Insured / Insured Person arising due
to an injury sustained whilst under the care of a friend, relative, house servant, other family members of the house
or a Professional Carrier in India during the Insured/ Insured Person’s trip, covered under this Policy.
The benefit under the Section is limited to the Sum Insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Pet Care:
This benefit does not cover any loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, directly, in whole
or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of
this Policy.
Endorsement no.30 – SPORTS EQUIPMENT COVER:
a. Coverage
In the event of Insured Person’s own or hired Sports Equipment and / or its accessories are lost due to theft or
damaged during the entire trip, the policy shall reimburse the market value of such lost or damaged equipment upto
the maximum of the Sum Insured as mentioned in the Policy Schedule/Certificate.
The Insurer’s liability to make payment is only in excess of the Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate. A
Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made under
this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Sports Equipment Cover:
Following losses are not covered under the policy:
1. Any loss due to theft or damage to insured/Insured Person sports equipment and accessories during
insured’s entire journey if he does not get a written PIR (Property Irregularity Report) issued by the airline.
For the purpose he shall be required to lodge the complaint with the airline immediately.
Page 69 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
2. Loss to sports equipment and accessories at any other time if insured does not report the loss or theft to
the local police within 24hrs of discovering it and get a written police report from them.
3. Loss or damage caused by delay, wear and tear, moths, vermin, weather and atmospheric conditions or
mechanical failure.
4. Loss or damage to sports equipment and accessories left unattended at any place.
5. Any loss or damage to the property due to confiscation or detention by any authority other than airline.
6. Any loss falling under the General Exclusions of the Policy
7. Any amount of loss that has already been compensated from the club.
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Sports Equipment Cover:
1. The Insured must keep the damaged property for inspection of the insurer or its authorized representative
at any time after the loss is reported to the insurer.
2. The Insured shall be required to surrender the said damaged property to the insurer on demand by them
at the time of final settlement of the claim or shall agree to deduct an appropriate salvage value from the
claim amount admissible at the option of the insurers.
3. If the claim involves a part of a set of Property, the insurer liability shall be limited to the value of that part
which has been damaged or lost during the trip.
4. Receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged or proof of ownership should be preserved properly so as to the
Insured to substantiate his claim.
5. The insured shall preserve all his recovery rights against the Third Party and shall be required to subrogate
the same to the insurer at the time of settlement of claim.
6. Maximum depreciation applicable under this benefit shall not exceed 50% in any event.
Endorsement no.31 – ADVENTURE SPORTS:
a. Coverage
Any Injury / illness / diseases related to or contracted due to participation in any adventure sports activity will
be covered under the base cover-Emergency Accidental Hospitalization and the optional covers- Emergency
Medical Evacuation & Repatriation of Mortal remains, if opted on payment of requisite additional charges as
agreed.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit will form part of Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.32 – CRUISE COVER:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the following expenses incurred by the Insured Person in excess of the deductible upto a
maximum of the Sum Insured as mentioned in Policy Certificate during the Policy Period:
1. Missed Port Departure
In the event where the insured / Insured person fails to arrive at the departure point in time to board the ship on
which he has booked to travel on the initial journey of his trip as a result of:
a) The failure of scheduled public transport on which the insured person is travelling
b) An accident to or breakdown of the vehicle in which the insured person is travelling;
Page 70 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
c) An accident or breakdown occurring ahead of him on a motorway or dual carriageway which causes an unexpected
delay to the vehicle in which Insured is travelling; or Strike, industrial action or adverse weather conditions,
The company shall reimburse the Insured / Insured Person reasonable additional accommodation (room only) and
travel expenses necessarily incurred in joining the cruise ship journey at the next docking port up to the limit
specified.
The Insurer’s liability to make payment is only in excess of the Deductible as specified in policy schedule/certificate.
2. UNUSED EXCURSIONS
The policy shall reimburse the cost of pre-booked excursions, which insured / insured person were unable to use
and which are not refundable from any other source as a direct result of being confined by the medical officer on
the ship to insured/insured person own cabin due to an accident or illness which is covered Base Emergency
Accidental Hospitalisation or the optional cover- Emergency Medical Expenses – Illness / Disease, if opted.
3. CRUISE INTERRUPTION
In the event of Insured/Insured person requiring hospital treatment on dry land due to temporary illness, the
policy reimburse the amount specified in the policy schedule/certificate, the travel expenses incurred to reach the
next port in order to re-join the cruise. The insured / insured person has to submit a certificate from the medical
practitioner in attendance to confirm the insured/ insured person’s unforeseen illness or injury.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.33 – DEBIT/CREDIT CARD FRAUD:
a. Coverage
In the event of loss or Theft of the Insured Person’s bank issued debit/credit/forex card in the place of visit within
India whilst on a Trip, the Company shall reimburse the financial loss incurred by the Insured Person, arising out of
any fraudulent utilization of such card from the time of such loss or Theft being reported until the time of such card
being blocked by issuing bank, up to the limit of Sum Insured as specified in the Policy schedule/Certificate.
This Benefit shall be payable subject to the following:
a. All claims made under this Benefit shall be payable in India and in Indian Rupees only.
b. The Insured Person must have taken all reasonable steps to avoid any loss, damage or expense.
c. The loss or Theft is to be reported to the issuing bank as soon as practicable, and a written police
report is to be furnished to the Company.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Page 71 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
b. Specific Conditions applicable to Debit/Credit card fraud:
Any suit or legal proceedings against the Company under this section shall be filed and instituted in the court having
jurisdiction in India only.
c. Specific Exclusions applicable to Debit/Credit card fraud:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment for any claim under this Benefit of the Policy in respect of an
Insured Person, directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable to any of the following:
1. Any claims where the loss can or could have been recovered from any other source.
2. Any claims where the reporting procedures of the issuing bank have not been followed as soon as
practicable from the time of the Insured Person becoming aware of the loss or Theft.
3. Any claim where loss or Theft is not notified to the local police as soon as practicable from the time of the
Insured Person becoming aware of the loss or Theft.
4. Any claim arising out of a loss where Insured Person has left the card unattended.
5. Any costs incurred in procurement of a new card.
6. Any claims arising out of, or in connection with any contractual liability.
7. Any claim arising out of a loss where the Insured Person, his/her Immediate Family Member, relative,
colleague, Travelling Companion or business staff is involved as an accomplice or accessory.
8. Any loss or damage of a consequential nature.
9. Any financial loss or liability due to misuse of card occurring after the time of reporting the
loss or Theft to the issuing bank.
10. Any claim, which is in any manner fraudulent or supported by any fraudulent statement or
device
Endorsement no.34 – LOSS OF GADGETS:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the cost of replacement to the Insured/Insured Person for loss of Laptop, Tablet, Mobile
phone, Drone, E-reading devices carried under personal baggage on a trip, due to any cause other than those
excluded.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Loss of Gadgets:
a) The Excess stated in the policy Schedule/certificate to be borne by the Insured in any one occurrence. If, however,
more than one property is lost or damaged in any one occurrence then the Insured shall not be called upon to
bear more than the highest single deductible applicable to such properties.
b) Loss or damage caused by any defects existing at the time of commencement of the present insurance within
the knowledge of the Insured/Insured Person, whether such defects were known to the Company or not.
c) Loss or damage as a direct consequence of wear and tear or of gradual deterioration due to atmospheric
conditions.
d) Any costs incurred in connection with the elimination of functional failures unless such failures were caused by
an indemnifiable loss of or damage to the insured properties.
Any costs incurred in connection with the maintenance of the insured properties, such exclusion also applying
to parts exchanged in the course of such maintenance operations.
e) Loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of the insured properties is responsible either by law or
under contract.
f) Loss of or damage to rented or hired property for which the owner is responsible either by law or under lease
and/ or maintenance agreement.
Page 72 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
g) Consequential loss or liability of any kind or description.
h) Aesthetic defects, such as scratches on painted polished or enameled surfaces.
In respect of the parts mentioned under (h) above, the Company shall be liable to provide compensation in the event
such parts are affected by an indemnifiable loss of or damage to the insured properties.
k) Wilful misconduct/ negligence on the part of the Insured/Insured Person.
l) Theft from car except from car of fully enclosed saloon type having all the doors, windows and other openings
securely locked.
m) Loss/damage while kept in a secure hotel room unless forcible entry was used to gain access to it.
n) Loss/damage not reported to Police within 24 hours of the discovery of loss and a report obtained.
o) Loss/damage due to confiscation or detention by Customs or any other public authority.
p) Loss/damage while left unattended at a public place or in a public conveyance.
q) Loss/damage while sent under contract of afreightment.
r) Loss or damage to equipment due to felonious assault, burglary
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.35 – ALTERNATE EMPLOYEE/SUBSTITUTE EMPLOYEE EXPENSES:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the cost of economy return fare incurred by the Insured/ Proposer towards sending an
alternate employee for an uncompleted assignment, in case the original employee of the Insured who has been sent
on an assignment and covered under this Policy, has to be transported back/repatriated to his/her usual place of
residence in India, due to
1. Accident/Injury
2. Illness
3. Accidental death arising due to an injury whilst on trip.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusion applicable to Alternate Employee/Substitute Employee Expenses
The following exclusions applicable to the Personal Accident section shall be applicable to this Section also as far as
the accidental death due to injury of the original employee is concerned who is covered under the Policy as the Insured
Person.
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this benefit in respect of the following:
1. Any existing physical disability.
Page 73 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
2. Accidents due to sleep disorders, hypnosis, tolerance and / or withdrawal symptoms due to intake of
psychoactive drugs, stimulants, sedatives, narcotics, hallucinogens.
3. Damage to health caused by curative measures, radiation, Infection, poisoning except where these arise
from an accident.
4. Any payment under this benefit whereby the Company's liability would exceed the sum payable in the
event of accidental death.
5. Any other claim after a claim for accidental death has been admitted by the Company and becomes
payable.
6. Any claim which arises out of an accident connected with the operation of an aircraft (Including Cabin
Crew) or which occurs during parachuting except when the Insured/Insured Person is flying as a Fare
Paying passenger in a multi-engine, scheduled commercial aircraft or Air Charter company.
7. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person from;
a. intentional self-injury, suicide, or attempted suicide.
b. whilst under the influence of intoxication, liquor or drugs.
c. arising or resulting from the insured/insured person committing any breach of law with criminal intent
or participating in an actual or attempted felony, riot, crime, misdemeanour or civil commotion.
d. whilst engaging in speed contest or racing of any kind, hunting, bungee jumping, parasailing,
ballooning, skydiving, paragliding, hand gliding, mountaineering or rock climbing, potholing, abseiling,
deep sea diving, polo, snow and ice sports, etc. unless specifically covered and duly mentioned in the
Policy Schedule/certificate.
8. Any consequential loss or damage cost or expense of whatsoever nature.
9. Accidental Death or disablement resulting, directly caused by, contributed to or aggravated or prolonged
by childbirth, maternity or pregnancy or in consequence thereof, venereal disease or infirmity.
10. Payment of compensation in respect of accidental death, injury or disablement of the Insured/Insured
Person, due to or arising out of or directly connected with or traceable to act of terrorism or terrorist
activities.
11. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions” section of this Policy.
Endorsement no.36 –LOSS OF DEPOSIT OR CANCELLATION(HOTEL &AIRLINE):
dorsemno.36 – LOSS OF DEPOSIT OR CANECLLATION (HOTEL & AIRLINE):
a. Coverage
i. All Risk Cover:
This Section shall reimburse expenses for necessary and unavoidable cancellation of Hotel and/ or Airline booking
arrangement by the client.
The Company shall be liable to reimburse the forfeited, non-refundable prepaid payments if the Insured event occurs
on the trip start date or within 24 hours prior to the trip start date.
The Company will reimburse for the forfeited, non-refundable prepaid payments, made prior to the Insured/
Insured Person's departure date after adjusting the proceeds of cancelling or preponing of the arrangement, if any.
ii. Bounced Hotel booking coverage:
In the event of hotel booking at destination point(s) being bounced i.e. Insured Person(s) could not obtain hotel
Page 74 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
accommodation services already booked for him on confirmed basis with the suppliers / agents within India due
to non-supply of services, the Insurance Company shall reimburse to the extent of 80% of following expenses:
d. Reasonable cost of Transportation expenses to the alternative hotel in the same class of accommodation and
location.
e. The difference of cost in up gradation to a superior class of accommodation, wherever alternate
accommodation is not available on the cost of pre-booked hotel. For this benefit the Insured shall be
required to furnish proof that the alternate accommodation on the cost of pre-booked hotel is not
available in the same location in the form of a certificate issued by the Alternate Accommodation Service
Provider
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airline)
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Policy for:
1. Common carrier-caused delays, including an announced, organized sanctioned union labour strike that
affects public transportation, unless the commencement of the period of insurance is prior to a date when
the strike is foreseeable and sufficient notice has been issued by way of local newspaper or any other
media advisory on actual occurrence of such an event. A strike is foreseeable on the date the labour union
members vote to approve a strike.
2. Travel arrangements cancelled or changed by an airline, cruise line, or tour operator, unless the
cancellation is the result of inclement weather.
3. Changes in plans by the Insured/ Insured Person, an immediate family member, or travelling companion
for any reason.
4. Adverse change in financial circumstances of the Insured/ Insured Person, any family member, or a
travelling companion.
5. Any business or contractual obligations of the Insured/Insured Person, any family member, or a travelling
companion, except for termination or layoff of employment of the Insured/Insured Person or the
travelling companion of the Insured as defined above.
6. Default by the person, agency, or tour operator from whom the Insured / Insured Person bought this Policy
and/or made travel arrangements.
7. Any government regulation or prohibition.
8. An event or circumstance, which occurs prior to the commencement of the period of insurance.
9. On account of a felonious assault, where the Insured/Insured Person, any family member of the
Insured/Insured Person, the travelling companion or travelling companion's family member has been a
principal or accessory in the assault committed.
10. Any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of this Policy.
c. Special condition applicable to Loss of Deposit or Cancellation (Hotel & Airlines):
1. The benefits payable under this cover shall be upto the Sum Insured less any refunds paid or payable by the
Hotel or Airline.
2. In the event that claims are submitted for Bounced Hotel Booking as well as under the optional cover –
Bounced Hotel Booking (if opted), the higher of the claims shall be payable by the Company during any
one period of insurance.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
Page 75 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.37 –TRAVEL LOAN SECURE:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse to the Insured Person in case the Insured Person has borrowed, for the purpose of
this Trip, from an NBFC/Bank or any other entity authorized by relevant authorities in India. Indemnity will be
provided for the following perils: Personal Accident Death, Permanent Total Disablement and permanent
partial disability of the Insured Person within 180 days from the date of such bodily injury and such bodily injury
is the sole and direct cause of his death or permanent total disablement Proceeds will be paid to the lending
entity provided that the Insured Person has assigned benefits under this section of the policy in favor of the
entity
Indemnity is provided to the extent of principal outstanding amount at the time of loss or Sum Insured as
specified under this section in the Policy schedule/certificate whichever is lower.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Conditions applicable to Travel Loan Secure:
This section does not cover the loan taken from any individual / firm / non-financial institution (including
his/her own firm / company) other than Commercial Bank /licensed financial institutions.
c. Specific Exclusion applicable to Travel Loan Secure:
No claim under this section would be paid if the death is due to or caused by
1. Directly caused by contributed to related to or aggravated or prolonged by childbirth or pregnancy or in
consequence thereof,
2. Due to participation in winter sports, skydiving, parachuting, hang gliding, bungee jumping, scuba diving,
mountain climbing, riding or driving in races or rallies using a motorized vehicle or bicycle, caving or pot
holing, hunting or equestrian activities, skiing, diving or other underwater activity, rafting or canoeing
involving white water rapids, yachting or boating outside coastal waters ( 2 miles), participation in any
Professional Sports, any bodily contact sport or any other hazardous or potentially dangerous sports.
3. Any loss falling under general exclusion of the policy
Endorsement no.38 – MOBILITY AIDS ALLOWANCE:
a. Coverage
If Insured Person has met with an Accident during the Policy period and sustained grievous bodily injuries for which
treating Medical Practitioner gives a written medical advice for procurement of prosthetic device or equipment,
then in addition to any amount payable under other Sections, the policy will reimburse the charges incurred by the
Insured person for procuring medically necessary prosthetic devices up to the amount stated in the policy
schedule/certificate.
Page 76 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
These devices are artificial devices replacing body parts, including artificial limbs, arms or eyes, orthopedic braces
(including but not limited to Cane, Crutches, forearm crutch, Walkers, Walker cane hybrid, Gait trainers, Seated
walking scooter, Wheelchairs and scooters, Stairlifts and similar devices, patient transfer devices and other aids of
similar utility, arm, back or neck braces) and durable medical equipment (including but not limited to crutches,
wheelchairs, power mobility devices, and hospital beds) which fulfils the insured person’s basic medical needs
consequent to an injury.
Durable medical equipment excludes spectacles, contact lenses, hearing aids, blood pressure monitoring machine,
diabetes monitoring machine
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.39 – TRAVEL WITH PET COVER:
a. Coverage
If the Insured Person is travelling with his Pet and during the Trip:
(a) If the Insured Person’s Pet suffers an Injury or Illness not related or attributed to any Pre-Existing condition,
then the company will reimburse the medical expenses incurred towards the inpatient & / or outpatient
treatment of the pet, or
(b) If the Insured Person suffers an Injury or Illness due to which he is admitted in a Hospital and there is no one
to take care of the pet, then the company will reimburse the expenses incurred towards the safe and
comfortable stay of pet at the pet boarding house
Please be informed that:
(a) The Insured Person’s pet has been validly transported and accommodated in accordance with the rules of the
Common Carrier, hotel or other provider of accommodation;
The Insured Person’s pet is maintained by the Insured Person exclusively for company, protection or
entertainment, and not for the purposes of commerce or research
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.40 – MISSED DEPARTURE:
a. Coverage
If the Insured / Insured person cannot reach the original departure point of Insured/Insured persons booked journey
or the onward or return journey due to below mentioned, the policy shall reimburse the cost for alternative travel
arrangement (Common Carrier- Air/ Rail).
inclement weather conditions;

failure of public transport services;

accident of the vehicle in which you are travelling, on the way to catch the return flight/ train journey;

death of the Insured Person or the travelling Insured Person’s parent, spouse or child;

sudden Illness or injury causing hospitalisation of the Insured Person or the travelling Insured Person’s

parent, spouse or child.
The company shall pay such cost after adjusting the reimbursed made by the airline.
Page 77 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Missed Departure:
This benefit does not cover any loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, directly, in whole
or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of
this Policy.
Endorsement no.40A – MISSED DEPARTURE ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
If the Insured / Insured person cannot reach the original departure point of Insured/Insured persons booked journey
or the onward or return journey due to below mentioned, the policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum
insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate.
inclement weather conditions;

failure of public transport services;

accident of the vehicle in which you are travelling, on the way to catch the return flight/ train journey;

death of the Insured Person or the travelling Insured Person’s parent, spouse or child;

sudden Illness or injury causing hospitalisation of the Insured Person or the travelling Insured Person’s

parent, spouse or child.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Exclusions applicable to Missed Departure on benefit basis:
This benefit does not cover any loss other than those mentioned above under the head “coverage”, directly, in whole
or in part, including loss caused by or resulting from any exclusion mentioned in the 'General Exclusions' section of
this Policy.
Endorsement no.41 – FLIGHT DIVERSION & CANCELLATION:
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the insured for the alternate expenses incurred for reaching the intended destination if
the flight on which the insured was travelling as a fare paying passenger is diverted or cancelled as a result of
major travel event (s) which are listed below.
Covered perils:
1. Air traffic congestion / Bad weather at the city airport making it impossible for the aircraft to land.
2. Strike by the airline authorities.
3. Industrial action or terrorist attack at the destination airport.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific conditions applicable to Flight Diversion & Cancellation:
(a) Insured can only claim under any one of the optional covers - of Trip Delay (Airways) or Missed Connection
(Airways) or Missed Departure or Flight Diversion & Cancellation or Flight Delay, if opted
Page 78 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
(b) Benefit shall not be applicable if such delay is foreseen by the Insured or that the Insured could have
reasonably become aware of such delay in advance.
(c) Any deviation from the originally scheduled route done at the instance of the Insured for reasons whatsoever.
(d) Any occasion when the carrier has offered an alternative transport or connection or the Insured Person’s
ticket for the connecting flight could have been used for an alternative connection.
Endorsement no.41A – FLIGHT DIVERSION & CANCELLATION ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the
flight on which the insured was travelling as a fare paying passenger is diverted or cancelled as a result of major
travel event (s) which are listed below.
Covered perils:
1. Air traffic congestion / Bad weather at the city airport making it impossible for the aircraft to land.
2. Strike by the airline authorities.
3. Industrial action or terrorist attack at the destination airport.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific conditions applicable to Flight Diversion & Cancellation on benefit basis:
a) Insured can only claim under any one of the optional covers - of Trip Delay on Benefit basis (Airways)or Missed
Connection on Benefit basis (Airways) or Missed Departure or Flight Diversion & Cancellation on benefit basis
or Flight Delay on Benefit basis, if opted
b) Benefit shall not be applicable if such delay is foreseen by the Insured or that the Insured could have
reasonably become aware of such delay in advance.
c) Any deviation from the originally scheduled route done at the instance of the Insured for reasons whatsoever.
d) Any occasion when the carrier has offered an alternative transport or connection or the Insured Person’s
ticket for the connecting flight could have been used for an alternative connection
Endorsement no.42 – BAGGAGE DELAY IN COMMON CARRIER:
a. Coverage
The policy will reimburse the insured upto the maximum of sum insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate
towards purchasing necessary Personal Effects if the insured’s Checked in-Baggage is delayed for more than
number of hours as stated in the Policy Schedule / Certificate, from the time the insured arrived at the intended
destination as stated on the ticket.
Please be informed that
(a) The payment for this benefit will be limited to the travel destinations as specified in the insured’s travel ticket
(issued by Common Carrier). Insured must be a ticketed passenger on Common Carrier and must provide with
written proof of delay from the common carrier.
(b) If upon further investigation it is later determined that the insured’s baggage checked with the Common
Carrier has been lost, any amount claimed and paid to the insured under this section will be deducted from
any payment due to the Insured under the optional cover-Baggage Loss in Common carrier (if opted).
Page 79 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
In addition to the General Exclusions listed in this Policy this coverage shall not cover any actual or alleged delay
arising from detention, confiscation or distribution by customs, police or other public authorities.
Endorsement no.42A – BAGGAGE DELAY IN COMMON CARRIER ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
The policy will pay a fixed amount equal to the sum insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the
insured’s Checked in-Baggage is delayed for more than number of hours as stated in the Policy Schedule /
Certificate, from the time the insured arrived at the intended destination as stated on the ticket.
Please be informed that
a) The payment for this benefit will be limited to the travel destinations as specified in the insured’s travel
ticket (issued by Common Carrier). Insured must be a ticketed passenger on Common Carrier and must
provide with written proof of delay from the common carrier.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
In addition to the General Exclusions listed in this Policy this coverage shall not cover any actual or alleged delay
arising from detention, confiscation or distribution by customs, police or other public authorities.
Endorsement no.43 – BAGGAGE LOSS IN COMMON CARRIER:
a. Coverage
The policy will reimburse the cost of replacement of the entire baggage and its contents, if the entire piece of
Checked -in- Baggage, held in the care, custody and control of a Common Carrier is lost due to theft or misdirection
by a Common Carrier or non- delivery at its destination while the Insured is a ticketed passenger on the Common
Carrier
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Please be informed that:
(a) Maximum amount to be reimbursed per checked in baggage is 50% of the applicable Sum Insured.
(b) Maximum value per Article contained in the checked in baggage is 10% of the applicable Sum Insured.
(c) We will not pay more than the sum insured mentioned in the schedule/certificate for all the checked-in
baggage.
(d) The Insured Person has to obtain a property irregularity report from the Carrier confirming the loss.
Page 80 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
(e) The cover is limited to the travel destinations specified in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of
residence.
(f) The Company’s payment will be reduced by any sum for which the Carrier is liable to make payment.
(g) If We accept a claim under the optional covers-Baggage Delay in Common carrier or Delay of Checked-in
Baggage (Airways), if opted and there is a subsequent claim under this Section in respect of the same
baggage,
(h) We will pay the difference between the amount due or paid under optional covers-Baggage Delay in
Common carrier or Delay of Checked-in Baggage (Airways), if opted and the amount payable in respect of
the claim under this section.
(i) The policy will not make any payment for claim directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable
to:
a. Valuables, Money, any kinds of securities or tickets.
b. Any damage to the baggage or its contents including pilferage from the baggage.
c. Delay, detention, confiscation or distribution of baggage by customs, police or other public
authorities.
d. Prohibited items as per the Carrier’s Policy
Endorsement no.43A – BAGGAE LOSS IN COMMON CARRIER ON BENEFIT BASIS (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy will pay a fixed benefit equal to the sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the
entire piece of Checked -in- Baggage, held in the care, custody and control of a Common Carrier is lost due to theft
or misdirection by a Common Carrier or non- delivery at its destination while the Insured is a ticketed passenger on
the Common Carrier
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Please be informed that:
1. We will not pay more than the sum insured mentioned in the schedule/certificate for all the checked-in
baggage.
2. The Insured Person has to obtain a property irregularity report from the Carrier confirming the loss.
3. The cover is limited to the travel destinations specified in the main travel ticket from his/her usual place of
residence.
4. The policy will not make any payment for claim directly caused by, arising from or in any way attributable
to:
a. Valuables, Money, any kinds of securities or tickets.
b. Any damage to the baggage or its contents including pilferage from the baggage.
c. Delay, detention, confiscation or distribution of baggage by customs, police or other public
authorities.
d. Prohibited items as per the Carrier’s Policy
Endorsement no.44 – LOSS OF BAGGAGE AND PERSONAL BELONGINGS:
a. Coverage
If, during the Period of Insurance, Personal Documents and/or Personal Effects owned by or in the custody of an
Insured Person are damaged or lost, then the policy will reimburse the Insured Person the cost of replacement of
Page 81 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
the articles for any amount up to the Total Sum Insured stated in the policy Schedule/certificate. The Deductible, if
applicable, shall be deducted from the Compensation payable.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Conditions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal Belongings:
1. All claims will be subject to the Company at its own discretion assessing the value of the claim based on the age
and estimated wear and tear of the article that forms the basis of the claim.
2. If applicable and if payment has been made under the optional covers - Baggage Loss in Common carrier
(Airways) or Total Loss of checked in Baggage (Airways) if opted, any amounts paid would be deducted from
payment of a claim under this Section of the Policy.
3. If a Policyholder or Insured Person has other insurance against a loss covered by this Section, then the Company
shall not be liable for a greater proportion of the loss than the applicable benefit under this Section bears to the
total applicable benefit under all such insurance.
c. Specific Definitions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal Belongings:
a. “Personal Documents” means an Insured Person's identity card (if applicable), ration card, voter identity card,
passport, driving license.
b. “Personal Effects” means an Insured Person's mobile, laptop or tablet.
d. Specific Claims Provisions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal effects:
In the event of a claim the Insured Person must:
1. give immediate written notice:
a. to the relevant Common Carrier in the event of loss or damage in transit;
b. to the relevant police authority in the event of loss or theft;
2. submit a copy of the relevant Common Carrier or police report when a claim is made;
3. obtain a Common Carrier or police report where the loss occurred;
4. in the event of loss by a Common Carrier, retain original tickets and baggage slips and submit them when a claim
is made;
5. submit original purchase receipts in the event of claims regarding goods purchased during the Insured Journey;
and
6. for claims involving jewellery, submit original or certified copies of valuation certificates issued prior to the
commencement of the Period of Insurance, when a claim is made
For purposes of any claim hereunder:
1. a pair of skis, ski boots and accessories shall be regarded as one item;
2. bottles of perfume, aftershave, and make up shall together be regarded as one item;
3. the equipment and accessories of any sport that an Insured Person takes on a trip shall be regarded as one item.
e. Special Exclusions applicable to Loss of Baggage and Personal Effects:
The Company shall not be liable to pay any benefit in respect of any Insured Person for:
1. loss of cash, bank or currency notes, cheques, debit or credit cards or unauthorized use thereof, postal orders,
Page 82 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
travellers cheques, travel, tickets, securities of any kind and petrol or other coupons.
2. mechanical or electrical breakdown or derangement or breakage of fragile or brittle articles, or damage caused
by such breakage unless caused by fire or by Accident to the conveying vehicle.
3. destruction or damage due to wear and tear, moth or vermin.
4. baggage, clothing and personal effects dispatched as unaccompanied baggage.
5. theft from a motor vehicle unless the property is securely locked in the boot and entry to such vehicle is gained
by visible, violent and forcible means.
6. loss or damage to sports equipment whilst in use, contact lenses, samples, tools.
7. for loss, destruction, or damage due to delay, confiscation or detention by order of any government or Public
Authority.
8. for loss, destruction or damage directly occasioned by pressure waves, caused by aircraft or other aerial devices
travelling at sonic or supersonic speeds.
9. for loss, destruction or damage caused by any process of cleaning, dyeing, repairing or restoring.
10. for loss, destruction, or damage caused by atmospheric or climatic conditions or any other gradually
deteriorating cause.
11. a claim involving animals.
12. loss, including but not limited to loss by theft, or damage to vehicles or other accessories.
13. for any loss that is not reported either to the appropriate police authority or transport carrier within twenty-
four (24) hours of discovery or if the carrier is an airline if a property irregularity report is not obtained.
14. baggage and/or personal effects sent under an airway-bill or bill of lading.
15. contact lenses, glasses, hearing aids or bridges or dentures for a tooth or teeth.
Endorsement no.45 – TERRORISM COVER:
a. Coverage
Notwithstanding any of the exclusions mentioned in the policy wordings, It is hereby understood and agreed that in
consideration of payment of additional premium, the policy extends to cover claims due to Terrorism as defined
under the policy for the Insured benefits vide Basic Emergency Accidental Hospitalisation or Base Personal Accident
Cover or Endorsement no.4. Personal Accident-Common Carrier, if opted.
Endorsement no.46 – KEY REPLACEMENT:
a. Coverage
If an insured person incurs expenses towards the following during the insured journey then the policy will
reimburse upto the maximum sum insured as specified in the policy schedule/certificate for the following
expenses:
1. Key Replacement – Reimbursement of the cost of replacing the insured’s residence and/or vehicle keys which
are lost or stolen. The covered cost is limited to the money you paid to a locksmith to produce a new key.
2. Break-in Protection – Reimbursement of the cost of replacing the Insured’s locks and keys if the residence or
vehicle is broken into. The covered costs include the labor cost for replacing the lock.
3. Lock Out Reimbursement – Reimbursement of the cost of obtaining a locksmith if the insured is locked out of
his/her residence or the insured’s vehicle due to the loss or theft of your keys.
4. Rental Car Reimbursement – Reimbursement of the reasonable cost of a rental car if the Insured’s vehicle keys
are lost or stolen and it will take more than 24 hours to replace them.
Page 83 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Key Replacement:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of the following:
1. costs other than those listed above
2. costs associated with lost or stolen keys for a residence other than the Insured’s primary residence;
3. The cost to replace keys to vehicles that the Insured does not own for personal use;
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Key Replacement:
For break-in protection claims, the Insured must provide an official police report that indicates the incident
happened within the covered time frame in order for us to pay the claim; unless you are legally incapable of doing
so.
Endorsement no.47 – LOSS OF DOCUMENTS:
a. Coverage
The policy will reimburse the actual expenses necessarily incurred by the insured to obtain the Duplicate or
remake the Identity documents such as Driving License, PAN Card, Aadhar Card, Voter Id or any other identity
proof, if he or she losess the same during the policy period
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable to Loss of documents:
The Company shall not be liable to make any payment under this Section in respect of the following:
1. transportation tickets, or other similar items or personal papers and payment cards;
2. losses that are caused by any events other than lost or stolen, such as fire, water, normal wear and tear,
manufacturing defects, vermin, insects, cleaning or repairs, or similar events;
3. accidental damage to insured’s wallet and items inside;
4. any fraudulent/unauthorized charges on the lost or stolen payment cards;
5. any identity theft related costs that are caused by lost or stolen personal papers or payment cards
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Loss of documents:
Insured must provide an official police report that indicates the incident happened within the covered time frame
in order for us to pay the claim; unless you are legally incapable of doing so.
Endorsement no.48 – CHANGE FEE COVERAGE (AIRWAYS):
a. Coverage
The policy shall reimburse the fees charged by the airline to change these dates up to the sum insured as specified
in the policy schedule/certificate. (Note: Covered reasons include having your trip cancelled or interrupted for a
covered reason listed — with the exception of cessation of operations — or because the Insured or a traveling
companion are delayed by severe weather on the way to your flight as long as you allowed enough time to board
your flight as scheduled.)
b. Co-Payment applicable to Change fee coverage (Airways):
Page 84 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co-payment as specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate. Co-Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every
claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.49 – CYBER SECURITY:
a. Coverage
The Policy shall reimburse the expenses incurred by the Insured Person during the Policy Period upto a maximum of
the Sum Insured due to:
a. Any fraudulent and unauthorized access to usage,
b. deletion or alteration of your personal data stored in Insured’s computer system including his/her digital
devices, Defense and prosecution costs against identity theft occurring on Insured’s legitimate Social
Media account as a result of a cyber-attack,
c. Repeated use of digital communications to harass or frighten the Insured, Computer program received
through SMS, File transfer, downloaded programs from internet or any other digital means by his/her
computer system including the digital devices maliciously designed to infiltrate and damage it without
insured’s consent, Funds wrongfully or erroneously paid by him/her as a direct result of Third Party's
unauthorized targeted cyber intrusion into Insured’s computer system,
d. Any attempt to obtain his/her sensitive information such as usernames, passwords, and credit card details
often for malicious reasons, by masquerading as a trustworthy entity through an electronic
communication,
e. A forgery or a wrongful manipulation of an E-mail header so that the message appears to have originated
from the actual source Any liability arising out of unintended publication or broadcasting of any digital
content resulting out of a Cyber Attack on your Computer System including your digital devices,
f. A threat to cause a Privacy Breach, Data Breach or Cyber Attack,
g. Any unauthorized disclosure of your personal data by a third party or any unauthorized access or use of
your personal data stored in Third Party's computer system.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.50 – IDENTITY THEFT:
a. Coverage
If an insured person incurs expenses resulting in efforts to resolve the identity theft, and expenses can be
submitted up to 12 months after you make a claim, we will pay (up to the maximum sum insured as specified in
the policy schedule/certificate for this benefit) for the following expenses:
1. Legal Expenses – We will reimburse you for attorney and court fees incurred by you for:
a. Defending any suit brought against you by a creditor or collection agency or someone acting on their behalf as a
result of the identity theft;
b. Removing any civil or criminal judgment wrongfully entered against you as a result of the identity theft;
Page 85 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
c. Challenging the accuracy or completeness of any information in your consumer credit report provided this
information is inaccurate and falsely provided to the credit agency or financial institution as a result of identity
theft.
2. Lost Wages - We will reimburse you for time taken from work solely as a result of your efforts to correct your
financial records that have been altered due to identity theft. Payment of lost wages includes compensation for
whole or partial unpaid workdays. You must take these unpaid days within 12 months of making a claim
3. Obligation to pay - If any credit accounts and or bank accounts were opened in your name without your
authorization, we will pay for your actual loss from the unauthorized account. We will pay for your legal obligation
to pay a creditor when the account was created as part of your identity theft.
4. Miscellaneous Expenses – We will reimburse the following expenses:
a. The cost of re-filing applications for credit accounts or banking accounts that are rejected solely because the
lender received incorrect information as a result of identity theft;
b. The cost of notarizing documents related to your identity theft, long distance telephone calls, and certified mail
reasonably incurred as a result of your efforts to report an identity theft or to correct your financial and credit
records that have been altered as a result of your identity theft;
c. The cost of contesting the accuracy or completeness of any information contained in your credit history as a
result of your identity theft;
d. The cost of a maximum of 4 (four) credit reports from an entity approved by us. The credit reports shall be
requested when you make a claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Specific Exclusions applicable for Identity Theft:
We will not pay for any expenses or loss as a result of:
1. Monetary losses other than those covered above
2. Any physical injury, sickness, disease, disability, shock, mental anguish and mental injury including required care,
loss of services or death;
3. Requesting credit reports before the discovery of your identity theft;
4. Taking time from self-employment or workdays that will be paid by your employer in order to correct your
financial records that have been altered due to identity theft.
c. Specific Conditions applicable for Identity Theft:
1. The fraudulent account must have been opened in your name without your authorization.
2. Any false charge or withdrawal from the unauthorized opened account must be verified by your financial
institution.
3. Coverage for false charges is limited to the amount you are held liable for by the financial institution.
4. We will be permitted to inspect your financial records.
5. You will cooperate with us and help us to enforce any legal rights you or we may have in relation to your identity
theft; this may include your attendance at depositions, hearings and trials, and giving evidence as necessary to
resolve your identity theft.
6. You will only have to pay one deductible per identity theft occurrence during the policy period.
Endorsement no.51 – CARRIER CANCELLATION:
a. Coverage
Page 86 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
The policy shall reimburse the expenses incurred up to the Sum Insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate,
if the Insured’s booked and confirmed journey is cancelled within 3 hours prior to the scheduled departure by the
Common Carrier, provided that the Insured Person provides Us with a written proof from the Common Carrier of
the cancellation of the journey unless this proof is available to Us directly from a reliable source in the public domain.
The company shall not be liable to reimburse any expenses under this for any cancellation of the journey by the
Insured Person.
A Deductible as mentioned in the Policy Certificate shall be separately applicable for each and every claim made
under this Benefit.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.51A – CARRIER CANCELLATION ON BENEFIT BASIS:
a. Coverage
The policy shall pay a fixed benefit equal to the Sum Insured specified in the policy schedule/certificate, if the
Insured’s booked and confirmed journey is cancelled within 3 hours prior to the scheduled departure by the
Common Carrier, provided that the Insured Person provides Us with a written proof from the Common Carrier of
the cancellation of the journey unless this proof is available to Us directly from a reliable source in the public domain.
The company shall not be liable to reimburse any expenses under this for any cancellation of the journey by the
Insured Person.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.52 – DIGITAL CAMERA INSURANCE:
a. Coverage
The Company hereby agrees with the Insured (subject to the Exclusions & Conditions contained herein or endorsed
hereon) that if at any time during the Policy Period, the Digital Camera insured and as defined in the policy shall
suffer any unforeseen and sudden physical loss or damage from any cause whilst a trip during the policy period,
other than those specifically excluded, in a manner necessitating repair or replacement, the Company will indemnify
the Insured Person in respect of such loss or damage upto the maximum of the Sum Insured subject to a Co-payment
as mentioned in the Policy Certificate.
b. Specific Exclusion applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:
The Company shall not, however, be liable for
1. Loss or damage caused by any faults or defects existing at the time of commencement of the present
insurance within the knowledge of the Insured, or his representatives, whether such faults or defects were
known to the Company or not;
2. Loss or damage as a direct consequence of the continual influence of operation (eg. wear and tear,
cavitations, erosion, corrosion, incrustation) or of gradual deterioration due to atmospheric conditions;
3. any costs incurred in connection with the maintenance of the Digital Camera, such exclusion also applying
to parts exchanged in the course of such maintenance operations;
Page 87 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
4. loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of the Digital camera is responsible either by law or
under contract;
5. loss of or damage to rented or hired Digital Camera for which the owner is responsible either by law or
under a lease and/or maintenance agreement;
6. consequential loss or liability of any kind or description;
7. aesthetic defects
8. any Digital Single Lens Reflex (DSLR) camera purchased 30 days prior to the inception of this policy.
9. Damage due to Pollution: any damage, loss or destruction to the Digital Camera on account of pollution or
contamination
c. Specific Conditions applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:
1. In cases where damage to the Digital Camera can be repaired the Company shall pay the expenses
necessarily incurred to restore the damaged camera to its former state of serviceability
2. In cases where the Digital Camera is destroyed, the Company will pay the actual value of the item
immediately before the occurrence of the loss
3. the cost of any alterations, improvements or overhauls shall not be recoverable under this cover
4. in cases where the Digital Camera is subjected to total loss and meanwhile it becomes obsolete, all costs
necessary to replace the lost or damaged Digital Camera with a follow-up model of similar type and similar
quality will be reimbursed.
5. The Company will make payments only after being satisfied, with necessary bills and documents that the
repairs have been effected or replacements have taken place, as the case may be.
d. Warranty applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:
It is warranted that the Maintenance Agreement in force at the inception of this policy is maintained during the
currency of this policy and no variation in the terms of the Agreement shall be made without the written consent of
the Company being obtained.
For the purpose of this warranty the word ‘Maintenance’ shall mean the following:
1. Safety Checks
2. Preventive Maintenance
3. Rectification of loss or damage or faults arising from normal operations as well as from ageing
e. Co-Payment applicable to Digital Camera Insurance:
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co-payment as specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate. Co-Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every
claim.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
Endorsement no.53 – ALL RISK CANCELLATION:
a. Coverage
The policy will reimburse the Insured/Insured Person, the cost of ticket booked to travel by a Common Carrier for
the Trip, up to the limit specified in the Policy Schedule/certificate and deductible as applicable, which are
unrecoverable from any other sources, if Your Trip needs to be cancelled prior to commencement from Your place
of residence or place of origin schedule from the departure date and time of the common carrier.
Page 88 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
OR
If scheduled Common Carrier on which Insured was booked to travel is cancelled by the carrier authorities before
one week of the scheduled date & Time of departure, and if the Insured has opted for refund of the ticket cost due
to the time gap between alternate Common Carrier offered by the carrier Company and originally booked Common
Carrier is of more than 2 hours, then We will pay difference in ticket cost booked by the Insured from other Carrier.
This benefit is over and above the Base Sum Insured.
b. Special Condition applicable to All Risk Cancellation:
i. Our payment will be reduced by any sum for which the Common Carrier is liable to make payment
ii. The city of destination on ticket booked from other carrier should be same as originally booked travel ticket which
was cancelled.
iii. Any claim paid to the Insured Person under optional covers- Trip Cancellation and/or Interruption or Travel
Inconvenience or Loss of Deposit or cancellation (Hotel & Airline) (if opted) shall invalidate the claim payment under
this benefit.
c. Co-Payment applicable to All Risk Cancellation:
It is also hereby agreed and declared that the Insured Person shall bear a co-payment as specified in the Policy
Schedule/Certificate. Co-Payment shall be applied on the admissible claim amount in respect of each and every
claim.
Endorsement No.54. AUTOMATIC EXTENSION FOR 7 DAYS:
a. Coverage:
The policy shall extend automatically as upto 7 days from the date of expiry of the policy as mentioned in the Policy
schedule, in the event of delay or cancellation of the departure of the Common Carrier in which the Insured Person
was booked to return back home and which is beyond the control of the Insured Person and no alternative
transportation was available to the Insured Person to return.
Subject otherwise to all the other terms, conditions, limitations and exceptions of the policy.
ANNEXURE – I
CLAIM DOCUMENTATION APPLICABLE TO VARIOUS COVERS UNDER THE POLICY
Claim documents to be submitted in addition to filled and signed claim form, KYC documents. However, depending
upon the peculiarity of the case, the Company may seek for additional documents / information’s, if necessary.
Additionally, the original ticket / boarding pass indicating the date of travel must also be submitted with every
claim, along with the completed Claim Form
Page 89 of 101

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
• Medical reports and discharge summary issued by the hospital or prescriptions and
medical records from the medical practitioner furnishing the name of the insured, period
of treatment and details of treatment rendered i.e. line of treatment and final diagnosis.
• Original hospital bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts
Emergency Accidental towards expenses incurred
Hospitalization • Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s Prescription advising hospitalization
• Name, Address and Phone number of the local medical officer/family physician in India.
• And any other document as may be appropriately applicable for the claims preferred
under this section of the Policy
 FIR/MLC copy
 Prescription from the medical practitioner
OPD Emergency
 Original bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts
Medical Expenses
towards expenses incurred
Accidental Death
• Police report in original if the accident shall have taken in the public place or premises
• Death Certificate clearly stating the reason of death
• Post Mortem Report (In case of death)
• Detailed Sequence of events
• Medical records giving the details of accident, nature of injury (in case of hospital visit)
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon in India or any other equivalent recognized
doctor authorized by state government.
• Medical report from the attending doctor
• Valid ticket or certificate from the Common Carrier establishing the Insured Person’s
Personal Accident
bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier at the time of the Accident.
Covers
Permanent and Partial Disablement:
• Police report in original if the accident shall have taken in the public place or premises
• Detailed Sequence of events
• Medical records giving the details of accident, nature of injury (in case of hospital visit)
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon in India or any other equivalent recognized
doctor authorized by state government.
• Valid ticket or certificate from the Common Carrier establishing the Insured Person’s
bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier at the time of the Accident.
Depending upon the peculiarity of the case, additional documents/information’s will be
asked for
Page 90 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row: Emergency Accidental
Hospitalization |  |  | • Medical reports and discharge summary issued by the hospital or prescriptions and
medical records from the medical practitioner furnishing the name of the insured, period
of treatment and details of treatment rendered i.e. line of treatment and final diagnosis.
• Original hospital bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts
towards expenses incurred
• Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s Prescription advising hospitalization
• Name, Address and Phone number of the local medical officer/family physician in India.
• And any other document as may be appropriately applicable for the claims preferred
under this section of the Policy
 FIR/MLC copy |  | 

Table Row: OPD Emergency
Medical Expenses |  |  |  Prescription from the medical practitioner
 Original bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts
towards expenses incurred |  | 

Table Row: Personal Accident
Covers |  |  | Accidental Death |  | 

Table Row:  |  |  | • Police report in original if the accident shall have taken in the public place or premises
• Death Certificate clearly stating the reason of death
• Post Mortem Report (In case of death)
• Detailed Sequence of events
• Medical records giving the details of accident, nature of injury (in case of hospital visit)
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon in India or any other equivalent recognized
doctor authorized by state government.
• Medical report from the attending doctor
• Valid ticket or certificate from the Common Carrier establishing the Insured Person’s
bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier at the time of the Accident. |  | 

Table Row:  |  |  | Permanent and Partial Disablement: |  | 

Table Row:  |  |  | • Police report in original if the accident shall have taken in the public place or premises
• Detailed Sequence of events
• Medical records giving the details of accident, nature of injury (in case of hospital visit)
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon in India or any other equivalent recognized
doctor authorized by state government.
• Valid ticket or certificate from the Common Carrier establishing the Insured Person’s
bonafide travel in the affected Common Carrier at the time of the Accident.
Depending upon the peculiarity of the case, additional documents/information’s will be
asked for |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
Medical reports and discharge summary issued by the hospital or prescriptions and
medical records from the medical practitioner furnishing the name of the insured, period
of treatment and details of treatment rendered i.e. line of treatment and final diagnosis.
Emergency Medical • Original hospital bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts
Expenses – Illness / towards expenses incurred
Disease • Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s Prescription advising hospitalization
• Name, Address and Phone number of the local medical officer/family physician in India.
• And any other document as may be appropriately applicable for the claims preferred
under this section of the Policy
• Medical reports (Presenting complain, Diagnosis, Treatment given, Discharge condition
etc.) and transportation details issued by the evacuation agency, prescriptions and medical
report by the attending Medical Practitioner furnishing the name of the Insured Person
and details of treatment rendered along with the statement confirming the necessity of
evacuation;
• Documentary proof for all expenses incurred towards the Medical Evacuation.
• Copy of the death certificate,(Also providing details of the place, date, time, and the
Emergency Medical
circumstances and cause of death; )
Evacuation &
• Copy of the postmortem certificate, if conducted;
Repatriation of Mortal
• Documentary proof for expenses incurred towards disposal of the mortal remains
remains
including the name of the airlines, burial details, expenses incurred, other incidental cost
with bifurcation of expenses.
• In case of transportation of the body of the deceased to the Place of Residence, the
receipt for expenses incurred towards preparation and packing of the mortal remains of
the deceased and also for the transportation of the mortal remains of the deceased.
• Quotation or estimate of repatriation cost
• Invoices (Itemized) and money receipts in original for the amount claimed.
• Dental Records (Presenting complain, diagnosis, treatment given) All the test and X-ray
reports
Dental Treatment
• Prescription from the doctor
Expenses
• Name, address, contact no, fax no, e-mail id of the Local Medical Officer (LMO)/ Dentist
in India Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed
• Medical record of the patient. Discharge Summary, Presenting complain, diagnosis,
treatment given, etc.) Certificate from the Treating Medical Officer mentioning the need
Compassionate Visit for a companion (If no adult member from the family is available)
• Money receipts in original for expenses incurred towards air tickets and stay of the
insured/Immediate Family Member
• Police report confirming the incident. It should contain the passport number of the
Hijack Distress insured and period of hijacking
Allowance (Airways) • Letter from the airline clearly stating period of hijack and media
• Coverage details.(e.g. photograph, videos, newspaper cutting
Child Escort  Original ticket(s) used for the travel by the Minor Child(ren) back to the home town
• Air tickets along with boarding passes
Total Loss of checked
• Copy of baggage tag’s
in Baggage (Airways)
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier mentioning the number of
Page 91 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row: Emergency Medical
Expenses – Illness /
Disease |  |  | Medical reports and discharge summary issued by the hospital or prescriptions and
medical records from the medical practitioner furnishing the name of the insured, period
of treatment and details of treatment rendered i.e. line of treatment and final diagnosis.
• Original hospital bills with proper description of services rendered and payment receipts
towards expenses incurred
• Attending Surgeon’s/Medical Practitioner’s Prescription advising hospitalization
• Name, Address and Phone number of the local medical officer/family physician in India.
• And any other document as may be appropriately applicable for the claims preferred
under this section of the Policy |  | 

Table Row: Emergency Medical
Evacuation &
Repatriation of Mortal
remains |  |  | • Medical reports (Presenting complain, Diagnosis, Treatment given, Discharge condition
etc.) and transportation details issued by the evacuation agency, prescriptions and medical
report by the attending Medical Practitioner furnishing the name of the Insured Person
and details of treatment rendered along with the statement confirming the necessity of
evacuation;
• Documentary proof for all expenses incurred towards the Medical Evacuation.
• Copy of the death certificate,(Also providing details of the place, date, time, and the
circumstances and cause of death; )
• Copy of the postmortem certificate, if conducted;
• Documentary proof for expenses incurred towards disposal of the mortal remains
including the name of the airlines, burial details, expenses incurred, other incidental cost
with bifurcation of expenses.
• In case of transportation of the body of the deceased to the Place of Residence, the
receipt for expenses incurred towards preparation and packing of the mortal remains of
the deceased and also for the transportation of the mortal remains of the deceased.
• Quotation or estimate of repatriation cost
• Invoices (Itemized) and money receipts in original for the amount claimed. |  | 

Table Row: Dental Treatment
Expenses |  |  | • Dental Records (Presenting complain, diagnosis, treatment given) All the test and X-ray
reports
• Prescription from the doctor
• Name, address, contact no, fax no, e-mail id of the Local Medical Officer (LMO)/ Dentist
in India Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed |  | 

Table Row: Compassionate Visit |  |  | • Medical record of the patient. Discharge Summary, Presenting complain, diagnosis,
treatment given, etc.) Certificate from the Treating Medical Officer mentioning the need
for a companion (If no adult member from the family is available)
• Money receipts in original for expenses incurred towards air tickets and stay of the
insured/Immediate Family Member |  | 

Table Row: Hijack Distress
Allowance (Airways) |  |  | • Police report confirming the incident. It should contain the passport number of the
insured and period of hijacking
• Letter from the airline clearly stating period of hijack and media
• Coverage details.(e.g. photograph, videos, newspaper cutting |  | 

Table Row: Child Escort |  |  |  Original ticket(s) used for the travel by the Minor Child(ren) back to the home town |  | 

Table Row: Total Loss of checked
in Baggage (Airways) |  |  | • Air tickets along with boarding passes
• Copy of baggage tag’s
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier mentioning the number of |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
baggage’s checked-in.
• Original Certificate from airline authorities stating that baggage has been lost along with
compensation details
• Adequate proof of ownership of items contained within checked-in baggage valued in
excess of Rs.5000/- under Total loss of Checked-in Baggage
• Air tickets and boarding pass
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier.
• Certificate from airline authorities clearly stating the date and time of delay and delivery
Delay of Checked-in of the baggage.
Baggage (Airways) • Original bills towards toiletries, medication and clothing during the delay period under
Delay of Checked-in Baggage
• Letter/communication clearly stating the compensation details offered by the
Airlines/Third Party
• Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of spouse, parents & children. (if
applicable)
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical
reasons. (if applicable)
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if
applicable)
• Letter from the airlines clearly mentioning the reason of cancellation and interruption of
flight(if applicable)
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if
Trip Cancellation
applicable)
and/or Interruption
• Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes or tickets as
applicable
•Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges due to interruption of schedule flight
• Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by an airline carrier, airport facility, car
Missed Connection rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
(Airways) insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, nonrefundable in nature.
• All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges due to interruption of schedule flight.
• Original bills and receipts towards reasonable additional expenses during the delay i.e.
Trip Delay (Airways) meals and lodging
• Letter from the airline clearly stating the period of delay
Page 92 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row:  |  |  | baggage’s checked-in.
• Original Certificate from airline authorities stating that baggage has been lost along with
compensation details
• Adequate proof of ownership of items contained within checked-in baggage valued in
excess of Rs.5000/- under Total loss of Checked-in Baggage |  | 

Table Row: Delay of Checked-in
Baggage (Airways) |  |  | • Air tickets and boarding pass
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier.
• Certificate from airline authorities clearly stating the date and time of delay and delivery
of the baggage.
• Original bills towards toiletries, medication and clothing during the delay period under
Delay of Checked-in Baggage
• Letter/communication clearly stating the compensation details offered by the
Airlines/Third Party |  | 

Table Row: Trip Cancellation
and/or Interruption |  |  | • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of spouse, parents & children. (if
applicable)
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical
reasons. (if applicable)
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if
applicable)
• Letter from the airlines clearly mentioning the reason of cancellation and interruption of
flight(if applicable)
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if
applicable)
• Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes or tickets as
applicable
•Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges due to interruption of schedule flight |  | 

Table Row: Missed Connection
(Airways) |  |  | • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by an airline carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, nonrefundable in nature.
• All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges due to interruption of schedule flight. |  | 

Table Row: Trip Delay (Airways) |  |  | • Original bills and receipts towards reasonable additional expenses during the delay i.e.
meals and lodging
• Letter from the airline clearly stating the period of delay |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
• Copy of boarding pass for the schedule trip and actual trip
• Covering Letter with sequence of events
• Letter in original mentioning the reason with refund details (If any ) from the hotel or
Emergency concern authority where you were originally supposed to stay but could not stay • Booking
accommodation due confirmation
to Trip Delay (Airways) • Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards the extra cost of travel and
accommodation
 All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses
Flight Delay • Copies of reimbursement statements issued by an airline carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent or other similar establishment or any other insurance Company
providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage tags.
• Original letter from the concerned Airline confirming the overbooked flight & when the
Over Booked-
next alternative transportation is available with refund or compensation amount if any.
Common Carrier
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards reasonable additional cost
(Airways)
incurred for staying in a similar hotel or purchasing a new ticket
• Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel
All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges
Bounced Hotel
 In case of superior class of accommodation, proof that the alternate accommodation on
booking
the cost of pre-booked hotel is not available in the form of a certificate issued by the
Alternate Accommodation Service Provider
• Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of Immediate Family Member (if
applicable)
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical
reasons. (if applicable)
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if
applicable)
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if
Travel Inconvenience applicable)
 Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the concerned authority
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case
• Police report (wherever applicable)
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
 Copy of complete schedule itinerary
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes /tickets as
Travel Service Supplier
applicable
Insolvency
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier carrier, airport
facility, car rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any
Page 93 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row:  |  |  | • Copy of boarding pass for the schedule trip and actual trip
• Covering Letter with sequence of events |  | 

Table Row: Emergency
accommodation due
to Trip Delay (Airways) |  |  | • Letter in original mentioning the reason with refund details (If any ) from the hotel or
concern authority where you were originally supposed to stay but could not stay • Booking
confirmation
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards the extra cost of travel and
accommodation |  | 

Table Row: Flight Delay |  |  |  All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by an airline carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent or other similar establishment or any other insurance Company
providing reimbursement to you for the loss |  | 

Table Row: Over Booked-
Common Carrier
(Airways) |  |  | • Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage tags.
• Original letter from the concerned Airline confirming the overbooked flight & when the
next alternative transportation is available with refund or compensation amount if any.
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards reasonable additional cost
incurred for staying in a similar hotel or purchasing a new ticket
• Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel |  | 

Table Row: Bounced Hotel
booking |  |  | All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges
 In case of superior class of accommodation, proof that the alternate accommodation on
the cost of pre-booked hotel is not available in the form of a certificate issued by the
Alternate Accommodation Service Provider |  | 

Table Row: Travel Inconvenience |  |  | • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of Immediate Family Member (if
applicable)
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical
reasons. (if applicable)
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if
applicable)
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if
applicable)
 Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the concerned authority
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case
• Police report (wherever applicable)
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature. |  | 

Table Row: Travel Service Supplier
Insolvency |  |  |  Copy of complete schedule itinerary
• Copy of new itinerary in case trip got reschedule along with boarding passes /tickets as
applicable
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier carrier, airport
facility, car rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
other insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
 All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges
 Car rental agreement.
 Copy of Police Report
Copy of the car rental company’s accident damage report which shows the detail of each
of the costs incurred, Photo evidence of the damage, itemized repair invoices/ receipts /
Car Rental Excess other documents confirming the breakup of the amount Insured have paid in respect of
Insurance accidental damage or loss for which the car rental company holds you responsible
Original Payment Receipt from Car Rental Company for the excess settled towards the
claim
 Copy of your credit card statement or payment instrument showing payment of the
damages claimed, copy of the driving license of the Insured driver
• FIR/Police Report
• Sequence of the events leading to Personal Liability
Personal Liability • Witness Statement
• Copy of policy report(in case of legal case)
• Copy of the court award- Notice from the Third party claiming the amount
• Medical report from the attending doctor abroad.
• Death Certificate (For Death Case)
• Post Mortem Report (For Death Case)
• Copy of FIR / Police Report
Legal expenses
• Sequence of events
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon or any other equivalent recognized doctor
authorized by state government.
• Original invoices and receipts of legal expenses
• Copy of first information report/policy report.
• Copy of final investigator report/non-detectable certificate issued by the police
authorities/magisterial order.
Home Burglary
• Original receipts for all items claimed. If not available, provide description of items and
Insurance (Contents)
the date, place and price of purchase
• Panchnama
• Letter of undertaking/subrogation form obtained from the insured.
• Fire Department report/Police report.
• Original receipts for all items claimed. If not available, provide description of items and
Chola Ms Bharat Griha the date, place and price of purchase
Raksha Policy • Panchnama
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case,
additional documents/information’s will be asked for
Page 94 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row:  |  |  | other insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
 All original bills and receipts for additional reasonable and necessary transportation
expenses and accommodation charges |  | 

Table Row: Car Rental Excess
Insurance |  |  |  Car rental agreement.
 Copy of Police Report
Copy of the car rental company’s accident damage report which shows the detail of each
of the costs incurred, Photo evidence of the damage, itemized repair invoices/ receipts /
other documents confirming the breakup of the amount Insured have paid in respect of
accidental damage or loss for which the car rental company holds you responsible
Original Payment Receipt from Car Rental Company for the excess settled towards the
claim
 Copy of your credit card statement or payment instrument showing payment of the
damages claimed, copy of the driving license of the Insured driver |  | 

Table Row: Personal Liability |  |  | • FIR/Police Report
• Sequence of the events leading to Personal Liability
• Witness Statement
• Copy of policy report(in case of legal case)
• Copy of the court award- Notice from the Third party claiming the amount |  | 

Table Row: Legal expenses |  |  | • Medical report from the attending doctor abroad.
• Death Certificate (For Death Case)
• Post Mortem Report (For Death Case)
• Copy of FIR / Police Report
• Sequence of events
• Certificate of disability from civil surgeon or any other equivalent recognized doctor
authorized by state government.
• Original invoices and receipts of legal expenses |  | 

Table Row: Home Burglary
Insurance (Contents) |  |  | • Copy of first information report/policy report.
• Copy of final investigator report/non-detectable certificate issued by the police
authorities/magisterial order.
• Original receipts for all items claimed. If not available, provide description of items and
the date, place and price of purchase
• Panchnama
• Letter of undertaking/subrogation form obtained from the insured. |  | 

Table Row: Chola Ms Bharat Griha
Raksha Policy |  |  | • Fire Department report/Police report.
• Original receipts for all items claimed. If not available, provide description of items and
the date, place and price of purchase
• Panchnama
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case,
additional documents/information’s will be asked for |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
FIR/Police report lodged at the place of loss within 24 hours.
• Details of items robbed -Details of funds (Cash, credit/debit cards, travelers cheque
available) available with you
Financial Emergency
• Sequence of events
Assistance
• Please confirm if you are staying alone or with any friends, family, relatives.
• Details of travel history for past 5 years
• Details of travel insurance taken in past 3 years prior to this policy
• Medical Record
• Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor
Pet Care • Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed
• A confirmation letter from the person, who was taking care of your pet during your trip
abroad
Sports Equipment  Copy of Hire Agreement in case of hired sports equipment or original proof of ownership
cover  Receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged
 Operator’s license
Adventure Sports
 Copy of Police report
• Booking confirmation
 Written proof from the public transport on the Accident, Breakdown of the Common
Carrier
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards the extra cost of travel and
Cruise cover
accommodation
 Medical Report on the illness or accidental injury suffered by the insured from the
Medical Officer of the ship (if applicable)
 All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
Debit / Credit Card - • Copy of first information report/policy report.
Fraud  Bank Statement on the transactions made without Insured authorizing the same.
• Copy of first information report/policy report.
 Original invoice/receipt evidencing the proof of purchase
Loss of Gadgets
 Ownership of the lost gadget, or document evidencing the authorized custody of the
same, if such gadget is provided by his/her employer/business organization
• Medical records
Alternate
• Medical certificate from the attending physician establishing illness/accident
Employee/Substitute
• Original tickets and boarding pass of the substitute employee
Employee Expense
• Proof towards obtaining a new ticket for alternative employee
• Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage tags.
• Original letter from the concern authority mentioning the amount paid to them or
contracted to be paid due to the booking. Also confirming the cancellation and refund
Loss of Deposit or
details If any
Cancellation (Hotel &
• Original tickets/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel
Airline)
• Medical record (If the cancellation was due to any medical reason)
• Money receipt in advance for the amount paid or contracted to be paid due to the
booking.
• Documents as per Personal Accident Section
Travel Loan Secure
 Loan Statement from the Bank with the Outstanding Principal Loan Amount details
Page 95 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row: Financial Emergency
Assistance |  |  | FIR/Police report lodged at the place of loss within 24 hours.
• Details of items robbed -Details of funds (Cash, credit/debit cards, travelers cheque
available) available with you
• Sequence of events
• Please confirm if you are staying alone or with any friends, family, relatives.
• Details of travel history for past 5 years
• Details of travel insurance taken in past 3 years prior to this policy |  | 

Table Row: Pet Care |  |  | • Medical Record
• Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor
• Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed
• A confirmation letter from the person, who was taking care of your pet during your trip
abroad |  | 

Table Row: Sports Equipment
cover |  |  |  Copy of Hire Agreement in case of hired sports equipment or original proof of ownership
 Receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged |  | 

Table Row: Adventure Sports |  |  |  Operator’s license
 Copy of Police report |  | 

Table Row: Cruise cover |  |  | • Booking confirmation
 Written proof from the public transport on the Accident, Breakdown of the Common
Carrier
• Money receipt in original for the expenses made towards the extra cost of travel and
accommodation
 Medical Report on the illness or accidental injury suffered by the insured from the
Medical Officer of the ship (if applicable)
 All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature. |  | 

Table Row: Debit / Credit Card -
Fraud |  |  | • Copy of first information report/policy report.
 Bank Statement on the transactions made without Insured authorizing the same. |  | 

Table Row: Loss of Gadgets |  |  | • Copy of first information report/policy report.
 Original invoice/receipt evidencing the proof of purchase
 Ownership of the lost gadget, or document evidencing the authorized custody of the
same, if such gadget is provided by his/her employer/business organization |  | 

Table Row: Alternate
Employee/Substitute
Employee Expense |  |  | • Medical records
• Medical certificate from the attending physician establishing illness/accident
• Original tickets and boarding pass of the substitute employee
• Proof towards obtaining a new ticket for alternative employee |  | 

Table Row: Loss of Deposit or
Cancellation (Hotel &
Airline) |  |  | • Copies of boarding pass, ticket, and baggage tags.
• Original letter from the concern authority mentioning the amount paid to them or
contracted to be paid due to the booking. Also confirming the cancellation and refund
details If any
• Original tickets/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel
• Medical record (If the cancellation was due to any medical reason)
• Money receipt in advance for the amount paid or contracted to be paid due to the
booking. |  | 

Table Row: Travel Loan Secure |  |  | • Documents as per Personal Accident Section
 Loan Statement from the Bank with the Outstanding Principal Loan Amount details |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
Mobility Aids
 Dr. Prescription and Original Payment receipts for purchase of Mobility Aids
Allowance
• Medical Records
• Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor
Travel with Pet cover • Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed
• A confirmation letter from the pet boarding house, who was taking care of your pet
during your hospitalisation
 Written proof from the public transport on the Accident, Breakdown or the Travel event
Missed Departure
or delayed arrival of the inward flight
• Letter from the airline clearly stating the period of delay/Cancellation
Flight Diversion &
• Covering Letter with sequence of events
Cancellation
 Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier.
Baggage Delay in
• Certificate from the Common Carrier clearly stating the date and time of delay and
Common carrier
delivery of the baggage.
• Copy of baggage tag’s
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier mentioning the number of
Baggage Loss in baggage’s checked-in.
Common carrier  FIR/Policy complaint on loss of baggage• Original Certificate from the Common Carrier
stating that baggage has been lost along with compensation details
• Adequate proof of ownership of items contained within checked-in baggage.
Emergency Authentication letter from the Common Carrier on the Inclement weather
accommodation due News Paper cutting or media coverage available in the public domain on the occurrence
to Trip Delay of the Insured Contingency details.
 Copy of Police Report
Loss of baggage and
 Original Payment receipts for the expenses incurred to replace the lost baggage and its
Personal Belongings
contents
 Copy of Police Report
 Receipts for replacing locks and/or keys
Key Replacement
 Cost of Labor
 Copy of Rental car Agreement (if applicable)
 Copy of Police Report
Loss of Documents  Copy of application made to the respective Government Authority for duplicate or for
remaking the same
• Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of Immediate Family Member (if
applicable)
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical
Change Fee Coverage reasons. (if applicable)
(Airways) • Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if
applicable)
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if
applicable)
Page 96 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row: Mobility Aids
Allowance |  |  |  Dr. Prescription and Original Payment receipts for purchase of Mobility Aids |  | 

Table Row: Travel with Pet cover |  |  | • Medical Records
• Prescription from the Veterinary Doctor
• Invoices (itemized) and Money receipts in original for the amount claimed
• A confirmation letter from the pet boarding house, who was taking care of your pet
during your hospitalisation |  | 

Table Row: Missed Departure |  |  |  Written proof from the public transport on the Accident, Breakdown or the Travel event
or delayed arrival of the inward flight |  | 

Table Row: Flight Diversion &
Cancellation |  |  | • Letter from the airline clearly stating the period of delay/Cancellation
• Covering Letter with sequence of events
 Original Air ticket/itinerary, where you were originally supposed to travel |  | 

Table Row: Baggage Delay in
Common carrier |  |  | • Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier.
• Certificate from the Common Carrier clearly stating the date and time of delay and
delivery of the baggage. |  | 

Table Row: Baggage Loss in
Common carrier |  |  | • Copy of baggage tag’s
• Property Irregularity Report issued by the Common Carrier mentioning the number of
baggage’s checked-in.
 FIR/Policy complaint on loss of baggage• Original Certificate from the Common Carrier
stating that baggage has been lost along with compensation details
• Adequate proof of ownership of items contained within checked-in baggage. |  | 

Table Row: Emergency
accommodation due
to Trip Delay |  |  | Authentication letter from the Common Carrier on the Inclement weather
News Paper cutting or media coverage available in the public domain on the occurrence
of the Insured Contingency details. |  | 

Table Row: Loss of baggage and
Personal Belongings |  |  |  Copy of Police Report
 Original Payment receipts for the expenses incurred to replace the lost baggage and its
contents |  | 

Table Row: Key Replacement |  |  |  Copy of Police Report
 Receipts for replacing locks and/or keys
 Cost of Labor
 Copy of Rental car Agreement (if applicable) |  | 

Table Row: Loss of Documents |  |  |  Copy of Police Report
 Copy of application made to the respective Government Authority for duplicate or for
remaking the same |  | 

Table Row: Change Fee Coverage
(Airways) |  |  | • Proof of death or hospitalization of Insured Person or of Immediate Family Member (if
applicable)
• Medical reports and doctors statement if trip is cancelled or interrupted due to medical
reasons. (if applicable)
• Termination letter from the Company if trip is cancelled due to employments.(if
applicable)
• Proof of material loss or damage to the property (e.g. police report, media coverage) (if
applicable) |  | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
Covers Claim Documents
 Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the concerned authority
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case
• Police report (wherever applicable)
 Tickets originally booked and rescheduled
 Police Report
Cyber Security
 Documentary proof evidencing the fraud committed
 Written statement from the Accommodation provider with reasons for denying the
Hotel Cancellation
confirmed booking of the Insured
 Police Report
 Provide proof that it was necessary to take time away from the Insured’s work if a claim is
made under lost wages. The Company will ask the Insured to submit proof from the
Insured’s employer that the Insured took unpaid days off, and Insured must have this
Identity Theft information notarized;
 Submit copies of any demands, notices, summonses, complaints, or legal papers received
in connection with a covered loss;
 Authorisation for us to obtain records and other information such as credit reports (if
applicable) within 3 days of making the claim
• Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common, airport facility, car rental
agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other insurance
Carrier Cancellation
Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
 Written proof from the Common Carrier of the cancellation of the journey
Digital Camera  Proof of Ownership
Insurance  Bills and documents for the repairs or replacements made, as applicable
• Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier, airport facility, car
All Risk Cancellation rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
Annexure-2 (attached to and forming part of policy wordings)
LIST OF EXCLUDED EXPENSES IN HOSPITALIZATION:
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Policy, the Company shall not be liable to pay the expenses incurred
under “excluded” or “non-medical” expenses as mentioned in the table below;
9
LIST I – NON MEDICAL EXPENSES EXCLUDED UNDER THE POLICY
Sl. No. Item
1 BABY FOOD
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES
3 BEAUTY SERVICES
4 BELTS / BRACES
5 BUDS
6 COLD PACK / HOT PACK
Page 97 of 101

Table Row:  | Covers |  |  | Claim Documents | 

Table Row:  |  |  |  Reason for refusal or delay of Visa from the concerned authority
• Newspaper cutting/Media report - Depending upon the peculiarity of the case
• Police report (wherever applicable)
 Tickets originally booked and rescheduled |  | 

Table Row: Cyber Security |  |  |  Police Report
 Documentary proof evidencing the fraud committed |  | 

Table Row: Hotel Cancellation |  |  |  Written statement from the Accommodation provider with reasons for denying the
confirmed booking of the Insured |  | 

Table Row: Identity Theft |  |  |  Police Report
 Provide proof that it was necessary to take time away from the Insured’s work if a claim is
made under lost wages. The Company will ask the Insured to submit proof from the
Insured’s employer that the Insured took unpaid days off, and Insured must have this
information notarized;
 Submit copies of any demands, notices, summonses, complaints, or legal papers received
in connection with a covered loss;
 Authorisation for us to obtain records and other information such as credit reports (if
applicable) within 3 days of making the claim |  | 

Table Row: Carrier Cancellation |  |  | • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common, airport facility, car rental
agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other insurance
Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature.
 Written proof from the Common Carrier of the cancellation of the journey |  | 

Table Row: Digital Camera
Insurance |  |  |  Proof of Ownership
 Bills and documents for the repairs or replacements made, as applicable |  | 

Table Row: All Risk Cancellation |  |  | • Copy of complete schedule itinerary for all the sectors
• Copies of reimbursement statements issued by the common carrier, airport facility, car
rental agency, travel agent, hotel/ motel or other similar establishment or any other
insurance Company providing reimbursement to you for the loss
• All original bills and receipts for expenses which got forfeited, non-refundable in nature. |  | 

Table Row:  | LIST I – NON MEDICAL EXPENSES EXCLUDED UNDER THE POLICY |  | 

Table Row: Sl. No. |  | Item | 

Table Row: 1 |  | BABY FOOD | 

Table Row: 2 |  | BABY UTILITIES CHARGES | 

Table Row: 3 |  | BEAUTY SERVICES | 

Table Row: 4 |  | BELTS / BRACES | 

Table Row: 5 |  | BUDS | 

Table Row: 6 |  | COLD PACK / HOT PACK | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
7 CARRY BAGS
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’S DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
10 LEGGINGS
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES
12 MINERAL WATER
13 SANITARY PAD
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES
15 GUEST SERVICES
16 CREPE BANDAGE
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
18 EYELET COLLAR
19 SLINGS
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES
21 SERVICES CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED
22 TELEVISON CHARGES
23 SURCHARGES
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES
28 COURIER CHARGES
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE
31 MEDICAL RECORDS
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES
33 MORTUARY CHARGES
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)
36 SPACER
37 SPIROMETRE
38 NEBULIZER KIT
39 STEAM INHALER
40 ARMSLING
41 THERMOMETER
42 CERVICAL COLLAR
43 SPLINLT
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/SHORT/HINGED)
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELTT
48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
Page 98 of 101

Table Row: 7 | CARRY BAGS

Table Row: 8 | EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES

Table Row: 9 | FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’S DIET PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)

Table Row: 10 | LEGGINGS

Table Row: 11 | LAUNDRY CHARGES

Table Row: 12 | MINERAL WATER

Table Row: 13 | SANITARY PAD

Table Row: 14 | TELEPHONE CHARGES

Table Row: 15 | GUEST SERVICES

Table Row: 16 | CREPE BANDAGE

Table Row: 17 | DIAPER OF ANY TYPE

Table Row: 18 | EYELET COLLAR

Table Row: 19 | SLINGS

Table Row: 20 | BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES

Table Row: 21 | SERVICES CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE ALSO CHARGED

Table Row: 22 | TELEVISON CHARGES

Table Row: 23 | SURCHARGES

Table Row: 24 | ATTENDANT CHARGES

Table Row: 25 | EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED CHARGE)

Table Row: 26 | BIRTH CERTIFICATE

Table Row: 27 | CERTIFICATE CHARGES

Table Row: 28 | COURIER CHARGES

Table Row: 29 | CONVEYANCE CHARGES

Table Row: 30 | MEDICAL CERTIFICATE

Table Row: 31 | MEDICAL RECORDS

Table Row: 32 | PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES

Table Row: 33 | MORTUARY CHARGES

Table Row: 34 | WALKING AIDS CHARGES

Table Row: 35 | OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL)

Table Row: 36 | SPACER

Table Row: 37 | SPIROMETRE

Table Row: 38 | NEBULIZER KIT

Table Row: 39 | STEAM INHALER

Table Row: 40 | ARMSLING

Table Row: 41 | THERMOMETER

Table Row: 42 | CERVICAL COLLAR

Table Row: 43 | SPLINLT

Table Row: 44 | DIABETIC FOOT WEAR

Table Row: 45 | KNEE BRACES (LONG/SHORT/HINGED)

Table Row: 46 | KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER

Table Row: 47 | LUMBO SACRAL BELTT

Table Row: 48 | NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES

Table Row: 49 | AMBULANCE COLLAR

Table Row: 50 | AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES – SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES
53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS
54 CREAMS POWDER LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)
55 ECG ELECTRODES
56 GLOVES
57 NEBULISATION KIT
58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED (DELIVERYKIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC)
59 KIDNEY TRAY
60 MASK
61 OUNCE GLASS
62 OXYGEN MASK
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
64 PAN CAN
65 TROLLY COVER
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
67 AMBULANCE
68 VASOFIX SAFETY
LIST 11 – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO ROOM CHARGES
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
2 HAND WASH
3 SHOE COVER
4 CAPS
5 CRADLE CHARGES
6 COMB
7 EAU0DE-COLOGNE/ROOM FRESHNERS
8 FOOT COVER
9 GOWN
10 SLIPPERS
11 TISSUE PAPER
12 TOOTH PASTE
13 TOOTH BRUSH
14 BED PAN
15 FACE MASK
16 FLEXI MASK
17 HAND HOLDER
18 SPUTUM CUP
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
20 LUXURY TAX
21 HVAC
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
Page 99 of 101

Table Row: 51 |  | ABDOMINAL BINDER | 

Table Row: 52 |  | PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES – SPECIAL NURSING CHARGES | 

Table Row: 53 |  | SUGAR FREE TABLETS | 

Table Row: 54 |  | CREAMS POWDER LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE) | 

Table Row: 55 |  | ECG ELECTRODES | 

Table Row: 56 |  | GLOVES | 

Table Row: 57 |  | NEBULISATION KIT | 

Table Row: 58 |  | ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED (DELIVERYKIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC) | 

Table Row: 59 |  | KIDNEY TRAY | 

Table Row: 60 |  | MASK | 

Table Row: 61 |  | OUNCE GLASS | 

Table Row: 62 |  | OXYGEN MASK | 

Table Row: 63 |  | PELVIC TRACTION BELT | 

Table Row: 64 |  | PAN CAN | 

Table Row: 65 |  | TROLLY COVER | 

Table Row: 66 |  | UROMETER, URINE JUG | 

Table Row: 67 |  | AMBULANCE | 

Table Row: 68 |  | VASOFIX SAFETY | 

Table Row:  | LIST 11 – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO ROOM CHARGES |  | 

Table Row: 1 |  | BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED) | 

Table Row: 2 |  | HAND WASH | 

Table Row: 3 |  | SHOE COVER | 

Table Row: 4 |  | CAPS | 

Table Row: 5 |  | CRADLE CHARGES | 

Table Row: 6 |  | COMB | 

Table Row: 7 |  | EAU0DE-COLOGNE/ROOM FRESHNERS | 

Table Row: 8 |  | FOOT COVER | 

Table Row: 9 |  | GOWN | 

Table Row: 10 |  | SLIPPERS | 

Table Row: 11 |  | TISSUE PAPER | 

Table Row: 12 |  | TOOTH PASTE | 

Table Row: 13 |  | TOOTH BRUSH | 

Table Row: 14 |  | BED PAN | 

Table Row: 15 |  | FACE MASK | 

Table Row: 16 |  | FLEXI MASK | 

Table Row: 17 |  | HAND HOLDER | 

Table Row: 18 |  | SPUTUM CUP | 

Table Row: 19 |  | DISINFECTANT LOTIONS | 

Table Row: 20 |  | LUXURY TAX | 

Table Row: 21 |  | HVAC | 

Table Row: 22 |  | HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES | 

Table Row: 23 |  | AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES | 

Table Row: 24 |  | IM IV INJECTION CHARGES | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
25 CLEAN SHEET
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
27 ADMISSION KIT
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
LIST III – ITEM THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO PROCEDURE CHARGES
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
2 DISPOSABLE RAZORS CHARGES (FOR SITE PREPARATIONS)
3 EYE PAD
4 EYE SHEILD
5 CAMERA COVER
6 DVD, CD, CHARGES
7 GAUSE SOFT
8 GAUZE
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
11 MICROSCOPE COVER
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL, SHAVER
13 SURGICAL DRILL
14 EYE KIT
15 EYE DRAPE
16 X-RAY FILM
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
18 COTTON
19 COTTON BANDAGE
20 SURGICAL TAPE
21 APRON
22 TORNIQUET
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
LIST IV – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO COSTS OF TREATMENT
1 ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
3 URINE CONTAINER
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES
5 BIPAP MACHINE
6 CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS
Page 100 of 101

Table Row: 25 |  | CLEAN SHEET | 

Table Row: 26 |  | BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET | 

Table Row: 27 |  | ADMISSION KIT | 

Table Row: 28 |  | DIABETIC CHART CHARGES | 

Table Row: 29 |  | DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE | 

Table Row: 30 |  | DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES | 

Table Row: 31 |  | DAILY CHART CHARGES | 

Table Row: 32 |  | ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES | 

Table Row: 33 |  | EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE | 

Table Row: 34 |  | FILE OPENING CHARGES | 

Table Row: 35 |  | INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED) | 

Table Row: 36 |  | PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG | 

Table Row: 37 |  | PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES | 

Table Row:  | LIST III – ITEM THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO PROCEDURE CHARGES |  | 

Table Row: 1 |  | HAIR REMOVAL CREAM | 

Table Row: 2 |  | DISPOSABLE RAZORS CHARGES (FOR SITE PREPARATIONS) | 

Table Row: 3 |  | EYE PAD | 

Table Row: 4 |  | EYE SHEILD | 

Table Row: 5 |  | CAMERA COVER | 

Table Row: 6 |  | DVD, CD, CHARGES | 

Table Row: 7 |  | GAUSE SOFT | 

Table Row: 8 |  | GAUZE | 

Table Row: 9 |  | WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES | 

Table Row: 10 |  | ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS | 

Table Row: 11 |  | MICROSCOPE COVER | 

Table Row: 12 |  | SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL, SHAVER | 

Table Row: 13 |  | SURGICAL DRILL | 

Table Row: 14 |  | EYE KIT | 

Table Row: 15 |  | EYE DRAPE | 

Table Row: 16 |  | X-RAY FILM | 

Table Row: 17 |  | BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES | 

Table Row: 18 |  | COTTON | 

Table Row: 19 |  | COTTON BANDAGE | 

Table Row: 20 |  | SURGICAL TAPE | 

Table Row: 21 |  | APRON | 

Table Row: 22 |  | TORNIQUET | 

Table Row: 23 |  | ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE | 

Table Row:  | LIST IV – ITEMS THAT ARE TO BE SUBSUMED INTO COSTS OF TREATMENT |  | 

Table Row: 1 |  | ADMISSION / REGISTRATION CHARGES | 

Table Row: 2 |  | HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION / DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE | 

Table Row: 3 |  | URINE CONTAINER | 

Table Row: 4 |  | BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES | 

Table Row: 5 |  | BIPAP MACHINE | 

Table Row: 6 |  | CPAP / CAPD EQUIPMENTS | 

CHOLAMANDALAM MS GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
Registered Office: 2nd Floor, “DARE House”, 2, N.S.C. Bose Road, Chennai – 600 001.
Toll free: 1800 208 9100, T: +91 (0) 44 4044 5400, F: +91 (0) 44 4044 5550
E: customercare@cholams.murugappa.com; website: www.cholainsurance.com
IRDA Regn. No.123; PAN AABCC6633K CIN U66030TN2001PLC047977
GROUP DOMESTIC TRAVEL INSURANCE
CHOTGDP23004V012223
Policy Wordings
7 INFUSION PUMP – COST
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\DISINFECTANTS ETC
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES – DIETICIAN CHARGES – DIET CHARGES
10 HIV KIT
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
12 LOZENGES
13 MOUTH PAINT
14 VACCINATION CHARGES
15 ALCOHOLT SWABES
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
17 GLUCOMETER & STRIPS
18 URINE BAG
This is for IRDAI Information Only
Some of the contents shown in policy wordings might be applicable for certain Sections and not generic, e.g. some
contents are useful for “Trip Delay” cover only. The Company intends to use the contents dynamically based on the
coverage offered to the Policyholder/Insured; e.g. If the Insured Person doesn’t opt for “Trip Delay”, then wording,
terms and conditions related to this Specific Section will not be shown on the Policy Wordings. Similarly, general
exclusions or general conditions which might not be applicable for Sections chosen by Policyholder/Insured will not
be shown. Idea of doing this is to make policy wording more apt and concise to customer need and provide relevant
information to customer.
Page 101 of 101

Table Row: 7 | INFUSION PUMP – COST

Table Row: 8 | HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\DISINFECTANTS ETC

Table Row: 9 | NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES – DIETICIAN CHARGES – DIET CHARGES

Table Row: 10 | HIV KIT

Table Row: 11 | ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH

Table Row: 12 | LOZENGES

Table Row: 13 | MOUTH PAINT

Table Row: 14 | VACCINATION CHARGES

Table Row: 15 | ALCOHOLT SWABES

Table Row: 16 | SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM

Table Row: 17 | GLUCOMETER & STRIPS

Table Row: 18 | URINE BAG

Table Row: Some of the contents shown in policy wordings might be applicable for certain Sections and not generic, e.g. some

Table Row: contents are useful for “Trip Delay” cover only. The Company intends to use the contents dynamically based on the

Table Row: coverage offered to the Policyholder/Insured; e.g. If the Insured Person doesn’t opt for “Trip Delay”, then wording,

Table Row: terms and conditions related to this Specific Section will not be shown on the Policy Wordings. Similarly, general

Table Row: exclusions or general conditions which might not be applicable for Sections chosen by Policyholder/Insured will not

Table Row: be shown. Idea of doing this is to make policy wording more apt and concise to customer need and provide relevant

Table Row: information to customer.

## SOURCE: EDLHLGA23009V012223.pdf
Well Baby Well Mother- Add On Wordings
Air Ambulance Cover
In consideration of the payment of additional premium to Us, We will cover the expenses incurred on air
ambulance services in respect of an Insured Person which are offered by a healthcare or an air
ambulance service provider and which have been used during the Policy Period to transfer the Insured
Person to a Hospital or transfer from one hospital to another with adequate emergency facilities for the
provision of Emergency Care, provided that:
i. Our maximum liability under this Benefit for any and all claims arising during the Policy
Year will be restricted to the Sum insured as stated in the Policy Schedule;
ii. The maximum distance of travel undertaken is 150 kms. In case of distance travelled is
more than 150 kms, proportionate amount of expenses upto 150 kms shall be payable.
Example: If insured has travelled a distance of 300kms using an air ambulance we will pay
50% of the total cost or Sum Insured whichever is lower. (Eligibility/Actual distance travelled
: 150kms/300kms = 0.5)
iii. It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/s of the Insured Person which requires
immediate and rapid ambulance transportation from the place where the Insured Person is
situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care to a hospital provided that the
transportation is for Medically Necessary Treatment, is certified in writing by a Medical
Practitioner, and road ambulance services cannot be provided.
iv. Such air ambulance providing the services, should be duly licensed to operate as such by a
competent government Authority.
v. This cover is limited to transportation from the area of emergency to a Hospital providing
emergency care which is not available at the place of origin and from one medical centre to
another. ;
We will not cover:
a. Transfer of the Insured Person from one medical facility to another medical facility of
similar capabilities which provides a similar level of care.
b. Any transportation of the Insured Person from Hospital to the Insured Person’s
residence after he/she has been discharged from the Hospital
c. Any transportation or air ambulance expenses incurred outside the geographical scope
of India.
d. Attempt at suicide
e. Injuries resulting from participation in acts of war or insurrection
f. commission of unlawful acts
g. Incidents involving use of drugs unless prescribed by a medical practitioner
h. We have accepted a claim under Section II.A.1 in respect of the Insured Person for the
same Accident/Illness for which air ambulance services were availed.
i. We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment can be provided at the Hospital
where the Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring Emergency Care.
Claims towards Air Ambulance expenses will be payable by mode of Reimbursement only
Add On Wordings- Well Baby Well Mother
Base Product UIN: EDLHLGP21462V032021
Add On UIN: EDLHLGA23009V012223
Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited,
Corporate Office: 5th Floor, Tower 3, Kohinoor City Mall, Kohinoor City, Kirol Road, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070, Registered Office:
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina, Mumbai -400 098, IRDAI Regn. No.: 159, CIN: U66000MH2016PLC273758, Reach us on: 1800
12000, Email: support@edelweissinsurance.com, Website: www.edelweissinsurance.com, Issuing/Corporate Office: +91 22 4272 2200,
Grievance Redressal Officer: +91 22 4931 4422, Dedicated Toll-Free Number for Grievance: 1800 120 216216. Trade logo displayed above
belongs to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited and is used by Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited under license. Insurance is
the subject matter of solicitation.

Well Baby Well Mother- Add On Wordings
Well mother Cover
Covers routine medical care provided to an insured female (expectant mothers and mothers who have
delivered new born baby), which includes routine preventive care services and immunizations (within the
maternity hospitalization period), during the period as opted by insured and specified in the policy
schedule
• Routine Medical Care would include expenses recommended by a doctor and incurred on –
Pharmacy, Diagnostics, Doctor Consultations and Therapy.
• Routine Preventive Care Services will include expenses recommended by a doctor and incurred
on – Pharmacy and Diagnostic Tests.
The insured shall have option to opt for this cover for any one of the below mentioned period:
i) At the onset of pregnancy and up to pre-hospitalization period for maternity.
ii) At the onset of pregnancy and maternity hospitalization (only routine preventive care services and
immunizations) up to first discharge from hospital.
iii) At the onset of pregnancy, maternity hospitalization (only routine preventive care services and
immunizations) and until 30 days following birth of new born baby.
We will not cover
1. Any infertility treatments
2. Any charges payable under the maternity section (if opted as an optional cover) of the policy
Healthy baby expenses / well baby care expenses
Cover for expenses incurred for a New born baby after the birth until first discharge from hospital.
Covers routine medical care provided to a new born baby, which includes limited to appropriate customary
examinations required to assess the integrity and basic functions of child’s organs and skeletal structure
carried out immediately following birth, routine preventive care services and immunizations (within the
hospitalization period).
The sum insured limit shall be as opted for and specified in the policy schedule. For multiple born babies
sum insured shall be subject to limit in place.
Routine Preventive Care Services will include expenses recommended by a doctor and incurred on –
Pharmacy and Diagnostic Tests.
Add On Wordings- Well Baby Well Mother
Base Product UIN: EDLHLGP21462V032021
Add On UIN: EDLHLGA23009V012223
Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited,
Corporate Office: 5th Floor, Tower 3, Kohinoor City Mall, Kohinoor City, Kirol Road, Kurla (West), Mumbai - 400 070, Registered Office:
Edelweiss House, Off CST Road, Kalina, Mumbai -400 098, IRDAI Regn. No.: 159, CIN: U66000MH2016PLC273758, Reach us on: 1800
12000, Email: support@edelweissinsurance.com, Website: www.edelweissinsurance.com, Issuing/Corporate Office: +91 22 4272 2200,
Grievance Redressal Officer: +91 22 4931 4422, Dedicated Toll-Free Number for Grievance: 1800 120 216216. Trade logo displayed above
belongs to Edelweiss Financial Services Limited and is used by Edelweiss General Insurance Company Limited under license. Insurance is
the subject matter of solicitation.

Table Row: Covers routine medical care provided to an insured female (expectant mothers and mothers who have

Table Row: delivered new born baby), which includes routine preventive care services and immunizations (within the

Table Row: maternity hospitalization period), during the period as opted by insured and specified in the policy

Table Row: schedule

Table Row: Any infertility treatments

Table Row: Any charges payable under the maternity section (if opted as an optional cover) of the policy

Table Row: Cover for expenses incurred for a New born baby after the birth until first discharge from hospital.

Table Row: Covers routine medical care provided to a new born baby, which includes limited to appropriate customary

Table Row: examinations required to assess the integrity and basic functions of child’s organs and skeletal structure

Table Row: carried out immediately following birth, routine preventive care services and immunizations (within the

Table Row: hospitalization period).

Table Row: The sum insured limit shall be as opted for and specified in the policy schedule. For multiple born babies

Table Row: sum insured shall be subject to limit in place.

## SOURCE: HDFHLIP23024V072223.pdf
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
EASY HEALTH
Preamble
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited will cover all Insured Persons under this Policy upto the
Sum Insured. The insurance cover is governed by, and subject to, the terms, conditions and exclusions of
this Policy.
Section A. Other Important Terms You should know
The terms defined below and at other junctures in the Policy Wording have the meanings ascribed to
them wherever they appear in this Policy and, where appropriate, references to the singular include
references to the plural; references to the male include the female and references to any statutory
enactment include subsequent changes to the same:
1. Standard Definitions
Def. 1. Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary event caused by external, visible and
violent means.
Def. 2. Any one illness means continuous Period of illness and it includes relapse within 45 days
from the date of last consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where treatment may
have been taken.
Def. 3. AYUSH HOSPITAL means an AYUSH Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein
medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures and interventions are carried out by
AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
a. Central or State Government AYUSH Hospital; or
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH College recognized by the Central Government
/Central Council of Indian Medicine/Central Council for Homeopathy; or
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located within-patient healthcare facility of any
recognized system of medicine, registered with the local authorities, wherever
applicable, and is under the supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH Medical
Practitioner and must comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds;
ii. Having qualified AYUSH Medical Practitioner in charge round the clock;
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped
operation theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the
insurance company’s authorized representative.
Def. 4. AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary
Health Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such health centre which is registered
with the local authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities for carrying out treatment
procedures and medical or surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the supervision of
registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner(s) on day care basis without in-patient services and must
comply with all the following criterion:
i. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner (s) in charge;
ii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as required and/or has equipped operation
theatre where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
iii. Maintaining daily records of the patients and making them accessible to the insurance
company’s authorized representative.
Def. 5. Cashless facility means a facility extended by the insurer to the insured where the payments,
of the costs of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance with the policy terms and
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
1 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
conditions, are directly made to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-
authorization approved.
Def. 6. Condition Precedent means a policy term or condition upon which the Insurer’s liability
under the policy is conditional upon.
Def. 7. Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is present since birth, and which is
abnormal with reference to form, structure or position
(a) Internal Congenital Anomaly - Congenital Anomaly which is not in the visible and
accessible parts of the body
(b) External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital Anomaly which is in the visible and
accessible parts of the body
Def. 8. Co-payment means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that
provides that the policyholder/insured will bear a specified percentage of the admissible claim
amount. A co-payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
Def. 9. Cumulative Bonus means any increase in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without
an associated increase in premium.
Def. 10. Critical Illness means Cancer of specified severity, Open Chest CABG, First Heart Attack of
specified severity, Kidney Failure requiring regular dialysis, Major Organ/Bone Marrow
Transplant, Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms, Permanent Paralysis of Limbs, Stroke
resulting in Permanent Symptoms as defined below only:
i) Cancer of specified severity:
A malignant tumour characterised by the uncontrolled growth & spread of malignant
cells with invasion & destruction of normal tissues. This diagnosis must be supported
by histological evidence of malignancy & confirmed by a pathologist.
The term cancer includes leukemia, lymphoma and sarcoma.
The following are excluded:
 Tumours showing the malignant changes of carcinoma in situ & tumours
which are histologically described as pre-malignant or non-invasive, including
but not limited to: Carcinoma in situ of breasts, Cervical dysplasia CIN-1, CIN -
2 & CIN-3.
 Any skin cancer other than invasive malignant melanoma
 All tumours of the prostate unless histologically classified as having a Gleason
score greater than 6 or having progressed to at least clinical TNM classification
T2N0M0.........
 Papillary micro - carcinoma of the thyroid less than 1 cm in diameter
 Chronic lymphocyctic leukaemia less than RAI stage 3
 Microcarcinoma of the bladder
 All tumours in the presence of HIV infection.
ii) Open Chest CABG:
The actual undergoing of open chest surgery for the correction of one or more
coronary arteries, which is/are narrowed or blocked, by coronary artery bypass graft
(CABG). The Diagnosis must be supported by coronary angiography and realisation of
the surgery has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner
The following are excluded:
 Angioplasty and / or Any other intra-arterial procedures
 Any Key-hole surgery or laser surgery
iii) First Heart Attack of Specified Severity:
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
2 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
The first occurrence of myocardial infarction which means the death of a portion of the
heart muscle as a result of inadequate blood supply to the relevant area.
The diagnosis for this will be evidenced by all of the following criteria:
 A history of typical clinical symptoms consistent with the diagnosis of Acute
Myocardial Infarction (for e.g. typical chest pain).
 New characteristic electrocardiogram changes.
 Elevation of infarction specific enzymes, Troponins or other specific
biochemical markers.
The following are excluded:
 Non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) with elevation of
Troponin I or T.
 Other acute Coronary Syndromes.
 Any type of angina pectoris
iv) Kidney Failure requiring Regular Dialysis:
End stage renal disease presented as chronic irreversible failure of both kidneys to
function, as a result of which either regular renal dialysis (haemodialysis or peritoneal
dialysis) is instituted or renal transplantation is carried out.
The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner
v) Major Organ/ Bone Marrow Transplant:
The actual undergoing of a transplant of:
 One of the following human organs - heart, lung, liver, pancreas, kidney, that
resulted from irreversible end-stage failure of the relevant organ or;
 Human bone marrow using hematopoietic stem cells.
The undergoing of a transplant must be confirmed by specialist medical practitioner.
The following are excluded:
 Other Stem-cell transplants
 Where only islets of Langerhans are transplanted
vi) Multiple Sclerosis with Persisting Symptoms:
The definite occurrence of Multiple Sclerosis.The diagnosis must be supported by all of
the following:
 Investigation including typical MRI and CSF findings, which unequivocally
confirm the diagnosis to be multiple Sclerosis.
 There must be current clinical impairment of motor or sensory function, which
must have persisted for a continuous period of at least 6 months.
 Well documented clinical history of exacerbations and remissions of said
symptoms or neurological deficits with at least two clinically documented
episodes at least 1 month apart.
Excluded is:
 Other causes of neurological damage such as SLE and HIV are excluded
vii) Permanent Paralysis of Limbs:
Total and irreversible loss of use of two or more limbs as a result of injury or disease of
the brain or spinal cord. A specialist Medical Practitioner (Physician / Neurologist) must
be of the opinion that paralysis will be permanent with no hope of recovery and must
be present for more than 3 months. .
viii) Stroke resulting in Permanent Symptoms:
Any cerebrovascular incident producing permanent neurological sequelae. This
includes infarction of brain tissue, thrombosis in an intra-cranial vessel, haemorrhage
and embolisation from an extracranial source.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
3 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
The diagnosis has to be confirmed by a specialist Medical Practitioner and evidenced
by typical clinical symptoms as well as typical findings in CT Scan or MRI of the brain.
Evidence of permanent neurological deficit lasting for atleast 3 months has to be
produced.
The following are excluded:
 Transient ischemic attacks (TIA)
 Traumatic injury of the brain
 Vascular diseases affecting only the eye or optic nerve or vestibular functions
Def. 11. Day Care centre means any institution established for day care treatment of illness and/or
injuries or a medical setup within a hospital and which has been registered with the local
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the supervision of a registered and qualified
medical practitioner AND must comply with all minimum criteria as under—
-has qualified nursing staff under its employment;
-has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge;
-has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out;
-maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance company’s
authorized personnel
Def. 12. Day Care Procedures means those medical treatment, and/or surgical procedure
i. which is undertaken under General or Local Anaesthesia in a Hospital/day care centre
in less than 24 hours because of technological advancement,
ii. which would have otherwise required a Hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.
Treatment normally taken on an Out-patient basis is not included in the scope of this definition
Def. 13. Deductible means a cost-sharing requirement under a health insurance policy that provides
that the insurer will not be liable for a specified rupee amount in case of indemnity policies and
for a specified number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies which will apply before
any benefits are payable by the insurer. A deductible does not reduce the Sum Insured.
Def. 14. Dental treatment means a treatment related to teeth or structures supporting teeth
including examinations, filings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and surgery.
Def. 15. Domiciliary Hospitalisation means medical treatment for an illness/disease/injury which in
the normal course would require a care and treatment at a Hospital but is actually taken while
confined at home under any of the following circumstances:
- The condition of the patient is such that he/she is not in a condition to be removed to a
hospital, or
- The patient takes treatment at home on account of non-availability of a room in a
hospital
Def. 16. Disclosure of information norm means the policy shall be void and all premiums paid hereon
shall be forfeited to the Company, in the event of misrepresentation, mis-description or non-
disclosure of any material fact.
Def. 17. Emergency Care means management for a severe illness or injury which results in symptoms
which occur suddenly and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a medical
practitioner to prevent death or serious long term impairment of the insured person’s health.
Def. 18. Grace Period means the specified period of time immediately following the premium due date
during which a payment can be made to renew or continue a Policy in force without loss of
continuity benefits such as waiting periods and coverage of Pre-Existing Diseases. Coverage is
not available for the period for which no premium is received.
Def. 19. Hospital means any institution established for in-patient care and day care treatment of
illness and/or injuries and which has been registered as a hospital with the local authorities
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
4 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010 or under the
enactments specified under the Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act OR complies with all
minimum criteria as under:
 has qualified nursing staff under its employment round the clock,
 has at least 10 in-patient beds, in those towns having a population of less than 10,00,000
and 15 in-patient beds in all other places,
 has qualified Medical Practitioner(s) in charge round the clock,
 has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own where surgical procedures are carried out,
 maintains daily records of patients and will make these accessible to the insurance
company’s authorized personnel.
Def. 20. Hospitalisation or Hospitalised means admission in a Hospital for a minimum of 24
consecutive ‘In-patient Care’ hours except for specified procedures / treatments, where such
admission could be for a period of less than 24 consecutive hours.
Def. 21. Illness means a sickness or a disease or pathological condition leading to the
impairment of normal physiological function which manifests itself during the Policy Period and
requires medical treatment
a) Acute Condition- Acute condition is a disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to
treatment which aims to return the person to his or her state of health immediately before
suffering the disease/illness/injury which leads to full recovery.
b) Chronic Condition- A chronic condition is defined as disease, illness, or injury that has one or
more o f the following characteristics:
- it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-ups, and
/ or tests
—it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
— it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
—it continues indefinitely
—it recurs or is likely to recur
Def. 22. Injury means accidental physical bodily harm excluding illness or disease solely and directly
caused by external, violent and visible and evident means which is verified and certified by a
Medical Practitioner.
Def. 23. In-patient Care means treatment for which the Insured Person has to stay in a Hospital for
more than 24 hours for a covered event.
Def. 24. Maternity expenses means
i. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including complicated deliveries
and caesarean sections during hospitalization);
ii. expenses towards lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the Policy Period.
Def. 25. Medical Advise means any consultation or advise from a Medical Practitioner including the
issuance of any prescription or follow up prescription.
Def. 26. Medical Expenses means those expenses that an Insured Person has necessarily and actually
incurred for medical treatment on account of illness or Accident on the advice of a Medical
Practitioner, as long as these are no more than would have been payable if the Insured Person
had not been insured and no more than other Hospitals or doctors in the same locality would
have charged for the same medical treatment.
Def. 27. Medically Necessary means any treatment, test, medication, or stay in Hospital or part of
stay in Hospital which
 Is required for the medical management of the Illness or injury suffered by the Insured
Person;
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
5 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
 Must not exceed the level of care necessary to provide safe, adequate and appropriate
medical care in scope, duration or intensity.
 Must have been prescribed by a Medical Practitioner.
 Must conform to the professional standards widely accepted in international medical
practice or by the medical community in India.
Def. 28. Medical Practitioner means a person who holds a valid registration from the medical
council of any state or medical council of India or council for Indian medicine or for homeopathy
set up by the government of India or a state government and is thereby entitled to practice
medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting within the scope and jurisdiction of license.
Def. 29. Migration means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including
all members under family cover and members of group health insurance policy) to transfer the
credits gained for pre-existing conditions and time-bound exclusions, with the same insurer.
Def. 30. Network Provider means Hospital enlisted by an insurer or a TPA or jointly by an insurer and
a TPA to provide medical services to an insured by a cashless facility.
Def. 31. New Born Baby means baby born during the Policy Period and is aged up to 90 days.
Def. 32. Non Network Provider means any Hospital, day care centre or other provider that is not part
of the Network
Def. 33. Notification of Claim means the process of intimating a claim to the insurer or TPA through
any of the recognized modes of communication.
Def. 34. OPD treatment means the one in which the Insured visits a clinic / hospital or associated
facility like a consultation room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice of a Medical
Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as a day care or in-patient
Def. 35. Portability means the right accorded to individual health insurance policyholders (including
all members under family cover) to transfer the credits gained for pre-existing conditions and
time-bound exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer.
Def. 36. Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment, injury or disease:
a) That is/are diagnosed by a physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the
policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
b) For which medical advice or treatment was recommended by, or received from, a
physician within 48 months prior to the effective date of the policy issued by the
insurer or its reinstatement.
Def. 37. Pre- Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means the medical expenses incurred during
predefined number of days preceding the hospitalization of the Insured Person, provided that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same condition for which the Insured
Person’s Hospitalisation was required, and
ii. The In-patient Hospitalization claim for such Hospitalization is admissible by the
Insurance Company
Def. 38. Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means medical expenses incurred during predefined
number of days immediately after the insured person is discharged from the hospital provided
that:
i. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition for which the insured person’s
hospitalization was required, and
ii. The inpatient hospitalization claim for such hospitalization is admissible by the insurance
company
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
6 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Def. 39. Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid registration from the nursing council of India
or the nursing council of any state in India
Def. 40. Reasonable & Customary Charges means the charges for services or supplies, which are the
standard
charges for a specific provider and consistent with the prevailing charges in the geographical
area for identical or similar services, taking into account the nature of illness/ injury involved.
Def. 41. Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital towards room and boarding expenses
and shall include associated medical expenses.
Def. 42. Renewal means the terms on which the contract of insurance can be renewed on mutual
consent with a provision of grace period for treating the renewal continuous for the purpose of
gaining credit for pre-existing diseases, time bound exclusions and for all waiting periods.
Def. 43. Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or operative procedure(s) required for
treatment of an Illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, diagnosis and cure of
diseases, relief of suffering or prolongation of life, performed in a Hospital or day care centre by
a Medical Practitioner.
Def. 44. Unproven/Experimental treatment means treatment including drug experimental therapy
which is not based on established medical practice in India, is treatment experimental or
unproven.
Def. 45. Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward or wing of a Hospital which is under
the constant supervision of a dedicated Medical Practitioner(s), and which is specially equipped
for the continuous monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a critical condition, or
require life support facilities and where the level of care and supervision is considerably more
sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary and other wards.
Def. 46. ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount charged by a Hospital towards ICU
expenses which shall include the coverage for bed, general medical support services provided to
any ICU patient including monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist charges.
2. Specific Definitions
Def. 1. Adventurous/Hazardous Sports means any sport or activity involving physical exertion and skill
in which an Insured Person participates or competes for entertainment or as part of his
Profession whether he / she is trained or not.
Def. 2. Age or Aged means completed years as at the Commencement Date.
Def. 3. Alternative treatments means forms of treatments other than treatment "Allopathy" or
"modern medicine" and includes Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and Homeopathy in the Indian context
Def. 4. AYUSH Treatment refers to hospitalisation treatments given under Ayurveda, Yoga and
Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy systems.
Def. 5. Bank Rate means the rate fixed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at the beginning of the
financial year in which claim has fallen due.
Contribution means essentially the right of an insurer to call upon other insurers liable to the
same insured to share the cost of an indemnity claim on a rateable proportion of Sum Insured.
This clause shall not apply to any Benefit offered on fixed benefit basis.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
7 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Def. 6. Commencement Date means the commencement date of this Policy as specified in the
Schedule.
Def. 7. Dependents means only the family members listed below:
i) Your legally married spouse as long as she continues to be married to You;
ii) Your children / Grandchildren Aged between 91 days and 25 years if they are unmarried
and financially dependent with no independent source of income. Children Aged
between 1 to 90 Days can be covered if Newborn Baby Benefit is added by payment of
additional premium subject to policy terms and conditions.
iii) Your natural parents or parents that have legally adopted You, provided that the parent was
below 65 years at his initial participation in the Easy Health Policy,
iv) Your Parent -in-law as long as Your spouse continues to be married to You and were below
65 years at his initial participation in the Easy Health Policy
v) Your Grandparents provided that the grandparent were below 65 years at his initial
participation in the Easy Health Policy,
All Dependent parents, Parent in laws, Grand Parents must be financially dependent on You.
Def. 8. Dependent Child means a child (natural or legally adopted), who is unmarried, Aged between 91
days and 25 years, financially dependent on the primary Insured or Proposer and does not
have his / her independent sources of income. Children Aged between 1 to 90 Days can be
covered if Newborn Baby Benefit is added by payment of additional premium subject to policy
terms and conditions.
Def. 9. Family Floater means a Policy described as such in the Schedule where under You and Your
Dependents named in the Schedule are insured under this Policy as at the Commencement
Date. The Sum Insured for a Family Floater means the sum shown in the Schedule which
represents Our maximum liability for any and all claims made by You and/or all of Your
Dependents during the Policy Year.
Def. 10. Insured Person means You and the persons named in the Schedule.
Def. 11. Material Facts means all relevant information sought by the Company in the Proposal Form
and other connected documents to enable it to take informed decision in the context of
underwriting the risk.
Def. 12. Policy means Your statements in the proposal form (which are the basis of this Policy), this
policy wording (including endorsements, if any), Annexure 1 and the Schedule (as the same may
be amended from time to time).
Def. 13. Policy Period means the period between the Commencement Date and the Expiry Date
specified in the Schedule.
Def. 14. Policy Year means a year following the Commencement Date and its subsequent annual
anniversary.
Def. 15. Shared accommodation means a Hospital room with two or more patient beds.
Def. 16. Single occupancy or any higher accommodation type means a Hospital room with only one
patient bed.
Def. 17. Sum Insured means the sum shown in the Schedule which represents Our maximum
liability for each Insured Person for any and all benefits claimed for during the Policy Year.
Def. 18. TPA means the third party administrator that We appoint from time to time as specified in
the Schedule.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
8 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Def. 19. We/Our/Us means the HDFC ERGO General Insurance Limited.
Def. 20. You/Your/Policyholder means the person named in the Schedule who has concluded this
Policy with Us.
Section B. Benefits
IMPORTANT: Any claims made under these benefits will impact eligibility for Cumulative Bonus, and
Health Checkup.
We will cover the Medical Expenses for: We will not cover treatment, costs or expenses for*:
*The following exclusions apply in addition to the waiting
periods and general exclusions specified in Section C-1,2,3
In addition to the waiting periods (Section C-1) and
general exclusions (Section C-2&3), We will also not cover
expenses
1. Inpatient Benefits: This section of benefits is applicable when
• An insured suffers an Accident or Illness, which is covered under this Policy
• Hospitalisation is necessary & is done for treatment OR
• Day care treatment is necessary and is done OR
• Domiciliary treatment is necessary and is done
1 a. In-Patient Treatment If as per any or all of the Medical references herein
below containing guidelines and protocols for
This includes Evidence Based Medicines, the Hospitalisation for
• Hospital room rent or boarding; treatment under claim is not necessary or the stay
• Nursing; at the hospital is found unduly long:
• Intensive Care Unit
• Medical Practitioners (Fees)  Medical text books,
• Anesthesia  Standard treatment guidelines as stated in
• Blood clinical establishment act of Government of
• Oxygen India,
• Operation theatre  World Health Organisation (WHO)
• Surgical appliances; protocols,
• Medicines, drugs & consumables;  Published guidelines by healthcare
• Diagnostic procedures. providers,
 Guidelines set by medical societies like
cardiological society of India, neurological
society of India etc.
b. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a), 1d)
consultations, investigations and medicines and 1e)
incurred upto 60 days before the date of 2. Expenses not related to the admission and not
admission to the Hospital (Inpatient or Day incidental to the treatment for which the admission
Care or Domiciliary treatment) has taken place
c. Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for
consultations, investigations and
medicines incurred upto 90 days after
discharge from Hospitalisation (Inpatient
or Day Care or Domiciliary treatment).
d. Day Care Procedures 1. Treatment that can be and is usually taken on an Out-
Medical treatment or surgical procedure Patient basis is not covered
which is undertaken under general or local 2. Treatment a NOT taken at a Hospital
anaesthesia, which require admission in a
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
9 | P age

Table Row:  | We will cover the Medical Expenses for: | We will not cover treatment, costs or expenses for*:
*The following exclusions apply in addition to the waiting
periods and general exclusions specified in Section C-1,2,3
In addition to the waiting periods (Section C-1) and
general exclusions (Section C-2&3), We will also not cover
expenses

Table Row: 1. Inpatient Benefits: This section of benefits is applicable when
• An insured suffers an Accident or Illness, which is covered under this Policy
• Hospitalisation is necessary & is done for treatment OR
• Day care treatment is necessary and is done OR
• Domiciliary treatment is necessary and is done |  | 

Table Row: 1 | a. In-Patient Treatment
This includes
• Hospital room rent or boarding;
• Nursing;
• Intensive Care Unit
• Medical Practitioners (Fees)
• Anesthesia
• Blood
• Oxygen
• Operation theatre
• Surgical appliances;
• Medicines, drugs & consumables;
• Diagnostic procedures. | If as per any or all of the Medical references herein
below containing guidelines and protocols for
Evidence Based Medicines, the Hospitalisation for
treatment under claim is not necessary or the stay
at the hospital is found unduly long:
 Medical text books,
 Standard treatment guidelines as stated in
clinical establishment act of Government of
India,
 World Health Organisation (WHO)
protocols,
 Published guidelines by healthcare
providers,
 Guidelines set by medical societies like
cardiological society of India, neurological
society of India etc.

Table Row:  | b. Pre-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for
consultations, investigations and medicines
incurred upto 60 days before the date of
admission to the Hospital (Inpatient or Day
Care or Domiciliary treatment)
c. Post-Hospitalization Medical Expenses for
consultations, investigations and
medicines incurred upto 90 days after
discharge from Hospitalisation (Inpatient
or Day Care or Domiciliary treatment). | 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a), 1d)
and 1e)
2. Expenses not related to the admission and not
incidental to the treatment for which the admission
has taken place

Table Row:  | d. Day Care Procedures
Medical treatment or surgical procedure
which is undertaken under general or local
anaesthesia, which require admission in a | 1. Treatment that can be and is usually taken on an Out-
Patient basis is not covered
2. Treatment a NOT taken at a Hospital

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Hospital/Day Care Centre for stay less than
24 hours. Treatment normally taken on out-
patient basis is not included in the scope of
this definition.
e. Domiciliary Treatment 1. Treatment of less than 3 days (Coverage will be
Medical treatment for an provided for expenses incurred in first three days
Illness/disease/injury which in the normal only if treatment period is greater than 3 days)
course would require care and treatment at a
Hospital but is actually taken while confined
at home under any of the following
circumstances:
1. The condition of the Patient is such that
he/she is not in a condition to be removed
to a Hospital or,
2. The Patient takes treatment at home on
account of non availability of room in a
Hospital.
Pre and Post Hospitalisation expenses for
consultations, investigations and medicines
incurred upto 60 days before hospitalisation
and 90 days after hospitalization respectively
will be covered in case of domiciliary
treatment.
f. Organ Donor: 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a) for
Medical and surgical expenses of the insured member.
organ donor for harvesting the organ 2. Admission not compliant under the Transplantation
where an Insured Person is the recipient. of Human Organs Act, 1994 (as amended).
3. The organ donor’s Pre and Post-Hospitalisation
IMPORTANT: Expenses incurred by an expenses.
insured person while donating an organ is
NOT covered.
g. Ambulance: 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a) and
Expenses incurred on a transportation of 1d)
Insured Person to a Hospital for 2. Healthcare or ambulance service provider not
treatment in case of an emergency, registered with road traffic authority.
subject to Rs. 2000 per Hospitalisation.
h. Ayush Benefit 1. Claims which have not been admitted under 1a)
Expenses incurred on treatment taken 2. Hospitalisation for evaluation, Investigation only
under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and 3. Treatment availed outside India
Homeopathy in a government hospital or 4. Treatment at a healthcare facility which is NOT a
in any institute recognized by government Hospital.
and/or accredited by Quality Council of
India/National Accreditation Board on
Health subject to amounts specified in
the Schedule of Benefits
i. Daily Cash for choosing shared 1. Daily Cash Benefit for time spent by the Insured
Accommodation Person in an intensive care unit
Daily cash amount will be payable per day 2. Claims which have NOT been admitted under
as mentioned in schedule of Benefits if 1a).
the Insured Person is Hospitalised in
Shared Accommodation in a Network
Hospital for each continuous and
completed period of 24 hours if the
Hospitalisation exceeds 48 hours.
2) Additional Benefits: The following benefits are available to all Insured Persons during the Policy Period.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
10 | P age

Table Row:  | Hospital/Day Care Centre for stay less than
24 hours. Treatment normally taken on out-
patient basis is not included in the scope of
this definition. | 

Table Row:  | e. Domiciliary Treatment
Medical treatment for an
Illness/disease/injury which in the normal
course would require care and treatment at a
Hospital but is actually taken while confined
at home under any of the following
circumstances:
1. The condition of the Patient is such that
he/she is not in a condition to be removed
to a Hospital or,
2. The Patient takes treatment at home on
account of non availability of room in a
Hospital.
Pre and Post Hospitalisation expenses for
consultations, investigations and medicines
incurred upto 60 days before hospitalisation
and 90 days after hospitalization respectively
will be covered in case of domiciliary
treatment. | 1. Treatment of less than 3 days (Coverage will be
provided for expenses incurred in first three days
only if treatment period is greater than 3 days)

Table Row:  | f. Organ Donor:
Medical and surgical expenses of the
organ donor for harvesting the organ
where an Insured Person is the recipient.
IMPORTANT: Expenses incurred by an
insured person while donating an organ is
NOT covered. | 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a) for
insured member.
2. Admission not compliant under the Transplantation
of Human Organs Act, 1994 (as amended).
3. The organ donor’s Pre and Post-Hospitalisation
expenses.

Table Row:  | g. Ambulance:
Expenses incurred on a transportation of
Insured Person to a Hospital for
treatment in case of an emergency,
subject to Rs. 2000 per Hospitalisation. | 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a) and
1d)
2. Healthcare or ambulance service provider not
registered with road traffic authority.

Table Row:  | h. Ayush Benefit
Expenses incurred on treatment taken
under Ayurveda, Unani, Sidha and
Homeopathy in a government hospital or
in any institute recognized by government
and/or accredited by Quality Council of
India/National Accreditation Board on
Health subject to amounts specified in
the Schedule of Benefits | 1. Claims which have not been admitted under 1a)
2. Hospitalisation for evaluation, Investigation only
3. Treatment availed outside India
4. Treatment at a healthcare facility which is NOT a
Hospital.

Table Row:  | i. Daily Cash for choosing shared
Accommodation
Daily cash amount will be payable per day
as mentioned in schedule of Benefits if
the Insured Person is Hospitalised in
Shared Accommodation in a Network
Hospital for each continuous and
completed period of 24 hours if the
Hospitalisation exceeds 48 hours. | 1. Daily Cash Benefit for time spent by the Insured
Person in an intensive care unit
2. Claims which have NOT been admitted under
1a).

Table Row: 2) Additional Benefits: The following benefits are available to all Insured Persons during the Policy Period. |  | 

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Any claims made under these benefits will be subject to In-patient Sum Insured and will impact eligibility
for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup These benefits are applicable based on the plan variant
selected, as mentioned in the schedule of benefits.
a. Daily Cash for Accompanying an Insured 1. Daily Cash Benefit for days of admission and
Child discharge
If the Insured Person Hospitalised is a Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a).
child Aged 12 years or less, daily cash
amount will be payable as mentioned in
schedule of Benefits for 1 accompanying
adult for each complete period of 24
hours if Hospitalisation exceeds 72
hours.
b. Newborn baby 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 3a) i.e.
Medical Expenses for any medically Maternity Expenses
necessary treatment described at 1)a) 2. Claims other than those available in Section B-1,
while the Insured Person (the Newborn Section C-1,2,3
baby) is Hospitalised during the Policy
Period as an inpatient provided a
proposal form is submitted for the
insurance of the newborn baby within 90
days after the birth, and We have
accepted the same and received the
premium sought.
Under this benefit, Coverage for
newborn baby will incept from the date,
the premium has been received.
The coverage is subject to the policy
exclusions, terms and conditions.
This Benefit is applicable if Maternity
benefit is opted and We have accepted
a maternity claim under this Policy.
c. Recovery Benefit 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a).
Lumpsum amount will be payable as
mentioned in schedule of Benefits if the
Insured Person is Hospitalised as an
inpatient beyond 10 consecutive and
continuous days
This benefit is payable only once per
Illness/Accident per Policy Year.
d. Emergency Air Ambulance Cover 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under
We will pay for ambulance Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Procedures.
transportation in an airplane or 2. Expenses incurred in return transportation to the
helicopter subject to maximum limit insured’s home by air ambulance is excluded.
prescribed in d(i) , for emergency life
threatening health conditions which
require immediate and rapid ambulance
transportation to the hospital/medical
centre that ground transportation
cannot provide subject to:
• Necessary medical treatment not
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
11 | P age

Table Row: Any claims made under these benefits will be subject to In-patient Sum Insured and will impact eligibility
for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup These benefits are applicable based on the plan variant
selected, as mentioned in the schedule of benefits. |  | 

Table Row:  | a. Daily Cash for Accompanying an Insured
Child
If the Insured Person Hospitalised is a
child Aged 12 years or less, daily cash
amount will be payable as mentioned in
schedule of Benefits for 1 accompanying
adult for each complete period of 24
hours if Hospitalisation exceeds 72
hours. | 1. Daily Cash Benefit for days of admission and
discharge
Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a).

Table Row:  | b. Newborn baby
Medical Expenses for any medically
necessary treatment described at 1)a)
while the Insured Person (the Newborn
baby) is Hospitalised during the Policy
Period as an inpatient provided a
proposal form is submitted for the
insurance of the newborn baby within 90
days after the birth, and We have
accepted the same and received the
premium sought.
Under this benefit, Coverage for
newborn baby will incept from the date,
the premium has been received.
The coverage is subject to the policy
exclusions, terms and conditions.
This Benefit is applicable if Maternity
benefit is opted and We have accepted
a maternity claim under this Policy. | 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 3a) i.e.
Maternity Expenses
2. Claims other than those available in Section B-1,
Section C-1,2,3

Table Row:  | c. Recovery Benefit
Lumpsum amount will be payable as
mentioned in schedule of Benefits if the
Insured Person is Hospitalised as an
inpatient beyond 10 consecutive and
continuous days
This benefit is payable only once per
Illness/Accident per Policy Year. | 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under 1a).

Table Row:  | d. Emergency Air Ambulance Cover
We will pay for ambulance
transportation in an airplane or
helicopter subject to maximum limit
prescribed in d(i) , for emergency life
threatening health conditions which
require immediate and rapid ambulance
transportation to the hospital/medical
centre that ground transportation
cannot provide subject to:
• Necessary medical treatment not | 1. Claims which have NOT been admitted under
Inpatient Treatment or Day Care Procedures.
2. Expenses incurred in return transportation to the
insured’s home by air ambulance is excluded.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
being available at the location where the
Insured Person is situated at the time of
Emergency;
• The Medical Evacuation been
prescribed by a Medical Practitioner and
is Medically Necessary;
• The insured person is in India and
the treatment is required in India only
and not overseas in any condition
whatsoever; and
• The air ambulance provider being
registered in India.
d(i)The amount payable in case of Air
ambulance facility shall be either the
actual expenses or Rs. 2.5 Lacs per
hospitalization, whichever is lower; upto
basic sum insured limit for a year
3. Additional Benefit not related to Sum Insured: The following benefit is available to all Insured Persons
during the Policy Period. Any claims made under these benefits will not be subject to In-patient Sum Insured
and will not impact eligibility for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup. These benefits are applicable based
on the plan variant selected, as mentioned in the schedule of benefits.
a. Maternity Expenses 1. Pre- and post-hospitalisation expenses under 1-b)
i. Medical Expenses for a delivery and 1-c)
(including caesarean section) as 2. Ectopic pregnancy under this benefit (although it
mentioned in schedule of Benefits shall be covered under 1a)
while Hospitalised or the lawful medical 3. Claim for Dependents other than Insured Person’s
termination of pregnancy during the spouse under this Policy.
Policy Period limited to 2 deliveries or
terminations or either during the
lifetime of the Insured Person
ii. Medical Expenses for pre-natal and
post-natal expenses per delivery or
termination upto the amount stated in
the Schedule of Benefits,
iii. Medical Expenses incurred for the
medically necessary treatment of the
new born baby upto the amount stated
in the Schedule of Benefits unless the
new born baby is covered under 2b),
and
iv. The Insured Person must have been an
Insured Person under Our Policy for the
period of time specified in the Schedule
of Benefits.
4. Critical Illness (Optional benefit)
Any claims made under this benefit will not be subject to In-patient Sum Insured and will not impact eligibility
for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup. This benefit is optional and effective only if mentioned in the
Schedule.
4 a. Critical Illness (Optional benefit) 1. The Insured Person is first diagnosed as suffering
We will pay the Critical Illness Sum from a Critical Illness within 90 days of the
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
12 | P age

Table Row:  | being available at the location where the
Insured Person is situated at the time of
Emergency;
• The Medical Evacuation been
prescribed by a Medical Practitioner and
is Medically Necessary;
• The insured person is in India and
the treatment is required in India only
and not overseas in any condition
whatsoever; and
• The air ambulance provider being
registered in India.
d(i)The amount payable in case of Air
ambulance facility shall be either the
actual expenses or Rs. 2.5 Lacs per
hospitalization, whichever is lower; upto
basic sum insured limit for a year | 

Table Row: 3. Additional Benefit not related to Sum Insured: The following benefit is available to all Insured Persons
during the Policy Period. Any claims made under these benefits will not be subject to In-patient Sum Insured
and will not impact eligibility for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup. These benefits are applicable based
on the plan variant selected, as mentioned in the schedule of benefits. |  | 

Table Row:  | a. Maternity Expenses
i. Medical Expenses for a delivery
(including caesarean section) as
mentioned in schedule of Benefits
while Hospitalised or the lawful medical
termination of pregnancy during the
Policy Period limited to 2 deliveries or
terminations or either during the
lifetime of the Insured Person
ii. Medical Expenses for pre-natal and
post-natal expenses per delivery or
termination upto the amount stated in
the Schedule of Benefits,
iii. Medical Expenses incurred for the
medically necessary treatment of the
new born baby upto the amount stated
in the Schedule of Benefits unless the
new born baby is covered under 2b),
and
iv. The Insured Person must have been an
Insured Person under Our Policy for the
period of time specified in the Schedule
of Benefits. | 1. Pre- and post-hospitalisation expenses under 1-b)
and 1-c)
2. Ectopic pregnancy under this benefit (although it
shall be covered under 1a)
3. Claim for Dependents other than Insured Person’s
spouse under this Policy.

Table Row: 4. Critical Illness (Optional benefit)
Any claims made under this benefit will not be subject to In-patient Sum Insured and will not impact eligibility
for a Cumulative Bonus and Health Checkup. This benefit is optional and effective only if mentioned in the
Schedule. |  | 

Table Row: 4 | a. Critical Illness (Optional benefit)
We will pay the Critical Illness Sum | 1. The Insured Person is first diagnosed as suffering
from a Critical Illness within 90 days of the

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Insured as a lump sum in addition to Our commencement of the Policy Period and the Insured
payment under 1)a), provided that: Person has not previously been insured continuously
and without interruption under an Easy Health Policy.
i. The Insured Person is first diagnosed as 2. The Insured Person has already made a claim for the
suffering from a Critical Illness during same Critical Illness.
the Policy Period, and 3. A claim for this benefit has already been made 3
ii. The Insured Person survives for at least times under this Policy or any other Easy Health
30 days following such diagnosis. policy issued by Us.
.
iii. “Critical Illness” includes Cancer, Open
Chest CABG, First Heart Attack, Kidney
Failure, Major Organ/Bone Marrow
Transplant, Multiple Sclerosis,
Permanent Paralysis of Limbs and
Stroke.
Note: Critical Illness (Optional benefit)
is always provided on an individual Sum
Insured basis irrespective of whether
policy is issued on an individual or
floater sum inured basis.
5. Renewal Benefits:
5.1. Cumulative Bonus
a) A 10% cumulative bonus will be applied on the Sum Insured for next policy year under the Policy after
every CLAIM FREE Policy Year, provided that the Policy is renewed with Us and without a break. The maximum
cumulative bonus shall not exceed 100% of the Sum Insured in any Policy Year.
b) In relation to a Family Floater, the cumulative bonus so applied will only be available in respect of
claims made by those Insured Persons who were Insured Persons in the claim free Policy Year and continue to be
Insured Persons in the subsequent Policy Year.
c) If a cumulative bonus has been applied and a claim is made, then in the subsequent Policy Year We will
automatically decrease the cumulative bonus by 10% of the Sum Insured in that following Policy Year. There will
be no impact on the Inpatient Sum Insured, only the accrued cumulative bonus will be decreased.
d) If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered on individual basis and thus have accumulated
the no claim bonus for each member in the expiring policy, and such expiring policy is renewed with Us on a
Family Floater basis, then the no claim bonus to be carried forward for credit in the Policy would be the least no
claim bonus amongst all the Insured Persons.
e) Portability/migration benefit will be offered to the extent of sum of previous sum insured and accrued
cumulative bonus (if opted for), portability/migration benefit shall not apply to any other additional increased
sum insured.
f) In policies with a two year Policy Period, the application of above guidelines of Cumulative Bonus shall
be post completion of each policy year.
5.2. Stay Active
We will offer a discount at each renewal if the insured member achieves the average step count target
on the mobile application provided by Us in the specified time interval (calculated from the policy risk
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
13 | P age

Table Row:  | Insured as a lump sum in addition to Our
payment under 1)a), provided that:
i. The Insured Person is first diagnosed as
suffering from a Critical Illness during
the Policy Period, and
ii. The Insured Person survives for at least
30 days following such diagnosis.
.
iii. “Critical Illness” includes Cancer, Open
Chest CABG, First Heart Attack, Kidney
Failure, Major Organ/Bone Marrow
Transplant, Multiple Sclerosis,
Permanent Paralysis of Limbs and
Stroke.
Note: Critical Illness (Optional benefit)
is always provided on an individual Sum
Insured basis irrespective of whether
policy is issued on an individual or
floater sum inured basis. | commencement of the Policy Period and the Insured
Person has not previously been insured continuously
and without interruption under an Easy Health Policy.
2. The Insured Person has already made a claim for the
same Critical Illness.
3. A claim for this benefit has already been made 3
times under this Policy or any other Easy Health
policy issued by Us.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
start date) as per the grid below. In an individual policy, the average step count would be calculated per
adult member and in a floater policy it would be an average of all adult members covered. Dependent
children covered either in individual or floater plan will not be considered for calculation of average
steps.
This discount will be accrued at defined time intervals as given in table below. The discount will be
cumulated and offered as discount on the renewal premium.
In individual policies the discount percentage (%) would be applied on premium applicable per insured
member (Dependent Children are not eligible for this stay active discount in an individual policy) and in a
floater policy it would be applied on premium applicable on policy.
The discount grid would be as per the table below:
1 Year Policy
Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date)
Average Step Risk start date or date 91-180 days 181-270 days 271-300 Maximum Discount
Target of download of mobile days at the end of the year
application -90 days
5000 or below 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
5001 to 8000 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% 2%
8001 to 10000 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 1.25% 5%
Above 10000 2% 2% 2% 2% 8%
2 Year Policy
Time Interval ((calculated from policy risk start date)
Risk start 91-180 181-270 271-360 361-450 451-540 541-630 631-660 Maximum
Average date or days days days days days days days Discount
Step date of at the
target download end of 2
of mobile years
application
-90 days
5000 or
0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0%
below
5001 to
0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 0.25% 2%
8000
8001 to
0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 0.625% 5%
10000
Above
1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 1% 8%
10000
The mobile app must be downloaded within 30 days of the policy risk start date to avail this
benefit. The average step count completed by an Insured member would be tracked on this
mobile application.
We reserve the right to remove or reduce any count of steps if found to be achieved in unfair
manner by manipulation.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
14 | P age

Table Row:  | Time Interval (calculated from policy risk start date) |  |  |  | 

Table Row: Average Step
Target | Risk start date or date
of download of mobile
application -90 days | 91-180 days | 181-270 days | 271-300
days | Maximum Discount
at the end of the year

Table Row: 5000 or below | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0%

Table Row: 5001 to 8000 | 0.5% | 0.5% | 0.5% | 0.5% | 2%

Table Row: 8001 to 10000 | 1.25% | 1.25% | 1.25% | 1.25% | 5%

Table Row: Above 10000 | 2% | 2% | 2% | 2% | 8%

Table Row:  | Time Interval ((calculated from policy risk start date) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  | 

Table Row: Average
Step
target | Risk start
date or
date of
download
of mobile
application
-90 days | 91-180
days | 181-270
days | 271-360
days | 361-450
days | 451-540
days | 541-630
days | 631-660
days | Maximum
Discount
at the
end of 2
years

Table Row: 5000 or
below | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0% | 0%

Table Row: 5001 to
8000 | 0.25% | 0.25% | 0.25% | 0.25% | 0.25% | 0.25% | 0.25% | 0.25% | 2%

Table Row: 8001 to
10000 | 0.625% | 0.625% | 0.625% | 0.625% | 0.625% | 0.625% | 0.625% | 0.625% | 5%

Table Row: Above
10000 | 1% | 1% | 1% | 1% | 1% | 1% | 1% | 1% | 8%

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Illustration
Policy start date 1st Jan 2016
Policy Tenure 1 year
Time Interval
Risk start date or
date of download of
mobile application -
90 days 91 days-180 days 181 days-270 days 271- 300 days
average steps taken in
the defined time period 8500 10000 5001 7500
discount %applicable 1.25% 1.25% 0.5% 0.5%
Total discount applicable on renewal premium = 3.5%
5.3. Preventive Health Check-up
a) If You have maintained an Easy Health Policy with Us for the period of time mentioned in the
Schedule of Benefits without any break, then at the end of each block of continuous years (as
mentioned in the Schedule of benefits) We will pay upto the percentage (mentioned in the
Schedule of Benefits) of the Sum Insured for this Policy Year or the subsequent Policy Years
(whichever is lower) towards the cost of a preventive health check-up for those Insured Persons
who were insured for the number of previous Policy Years mentioned in the Schedule.
Note: If member has changed the plan in subsequent year and in the new plan the waiting
period is less than previous plan then waiting period mentioned in the current plan would be
applicable.
Plan Standard Exclusive
Easy Health Individual Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Upto 1% of Sum Insured subject to a
Insured Person upto Rs.5000, only Maximum of Rs.5,000 per Insured Person,
once at the end of a block of every only once at the end of a block of every
continuous four claim free years. continuous three policy years
Easy Health Family Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy subject
upto Rs.5000, only once at the end to a Maximum of Rs. 5,000 per Policy, only
of a block of every continuous four once at the end of a block of every
claim free years continuous three policy years
b) In case of family floater in Standard Variant, if any of the members have made a claim under
this Policy, the health check-up benefit will not be offered to the whole family.
c) We will consider complete policy years for the eligibility of this benefit.
Preventive Health Check-up means a package of medical test(s) undertaken for general assessment of
health status, it does not include any diagnostic or investigative medical tests for evaluation of illness or a
disease.
Section C. Exclusions & Waiting Period
1. Standard Waiting Period
All Illnesses and treatments shall be covered subject to the waiting periods specified below:
i. 30-day waiting period – Code – Excl03
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
15 | P age

Table Row: Policy start date | 1st Jan 2016

Table Row: Policy Tenure | 1 year

Table Row: Time Interval |  |  |  | 

Table Row:  | Risk start date or
date of download of
mobile application -
90 days | 91 days-180 days | 181 days-270 days | 271- 300 days

Table Row: average steps taken in
the defined time period | 8500 | 10000 | 5001 | 7500

Table Row: discount %applicable | 1.25% | 1.25% | 0.5% | 0.5%

Table Row: Plan | Standard | Exclusive

Table Row: Easy Health Individual | Upto 1% of Sum Insured per
Insured Person upto Rs.5000, only
once at the end of a block of every
continuous four claim free years. | Upto 1% of Sum Insured subject to a
Maximum of Rs.5,000 per Insured Person,
only once at the end of a block of every
continuous three policy years

Table Row: Easy Health Family | Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy
upto Rs.5000, only once at the end
of a block of every continuous four
claim free years | Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy subject
to a Maximum of Rs. 5,000 per Policy, only
once at the end of a block of every
continuous three policy years

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
a) Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within 30 days from the first policy
commencement date shall be excluded except claims arising due to an accident, provided
the same are covered.
b) This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the insured person has continuous coverage for
more than twelve months.
c) The within referred waiting period is made applicable to the enhanced sum insured in the
event of granting higher sum insured subsequently.
ii. Specified disease/procedure waiting period – Code – Excl02
a) Expenses related to the treatment of the listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments shall be
excluded until the expiry of 24 months of continuous coverage after the date of inception
of the first policy with us. This exclusion shall not be applicable for claims arising due to an
accident or underlying cause is cancer(s).
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of
sum insured increase.
c) If any of the specified disease/procedure falls under the waiting period specified for pre-
existing diseases, then the longer of the two waiting periods shall apply.
d) The waiting period for listed conditions shall apply even if contracted after the policy or
declared and accepted without a specific exclusion.
e) If the Insured Person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the
applicable norms on portability/migration stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period for the
same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
f) List of specific diseases/procedures: -
Surgeries/ procedure (irrespective of
Sl. Organ / Organ Illness/Diagnosis (irrespective of
any illness / diagnosis other than
No. System treatments medical or surgical)
cancers)
 Adenoidectomy
 Mastoidectomy
 Sinusitis
 Tonsillectomy
 Rhinitis
 Tympanoplasty
Ear, Nose, Throat  Tonsillitis
a.  Surgery for nasal septum deviation
(ENT)
 Nasal concha resection
 Nasal polypectomy
 Surgery for Turbinate hypertrophy
 Cysts, polyps including
breast lumps
Hysterectomy
b. Gynaecological  Polycystic ovarian
disease
 Fibroids (fibromyoma)
 Non infective arthritis
 Surgery for prolapsed inter vertebral
 Gout and Rheumatism
c. Orthopaedic disk
 Osteoarthritis and
 Joint replacement surgeries
Osteoporosis
 Calculus diseases of
gall bladder including
Cholecystitis
 Pancreatitis
 Cholecystectomy
d. Gastrointestinal  Fissure/fistula in anus,
 Surgery of hernia
hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus
 Ulcer and erosion of
stomach and duodenum
 Gastro Esophageal
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
16 | P age

Table Row: Sl.
No. | Organ / Organ
System | Illness/Diagnosis (irrespective of
treatments medical or surgical) | Surgeries/ procedure (irrespective of
any illness / diagnosis other than
cancers)

Table Row: a. | Ear, Nose, Throat
(ENT) |  Sinusitis
 Rhinitis
 Tonsillitis |  Adenoidectomy
 Mastoidectomy
 Tonsillectomy
 Tympanoplasty
 Surgery for nasal septum deviation
 Nasal concha resection
 Nasal polypectomy
 Surgery for Turbinate hypertrophy

Table Row: b. | Gynaecological |  Cysts, polyps including
breast lumps
 Polycystic ovarian
disease
 Fibroids (fibromyoma) | Hysterectomy

Table Row: c. | Orthopaedic |  Non infective arthritis
 Gout and Rheumatism
 Osteoarthritis and
Osteoporosis |  Surgery for prolapsed inter vertebral
disk
 Joint replacement surgeries

Table Row: d. | Gastrointestinal |  Calculus diseases of
gall bladder including
Cholecystitis
 Pancreatitis
 Fissure/fistula in anus,
hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus
 Ulcer and erosion of
stomach and duodenum
 Gastro Esophageal |  Cholecystectomy
 Surgery of hernia

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Reflux Disorder (GERD)
 All forms of cirrhosis
(Please Note: All forms of
cirrhosis due to alcohol will be
excluded)
 Perineal Abscesses
 Perianal Abscesses
 Calculus diseases of
Urogenital system Example:
 Surgery on prostate
Kidney stone, Urinary bladder
e. Urogenital  Surgery for Hydrocele/
stone.
Rectocele
 Benign Hyperplasia of
prostate
 Cataract
f. Eye  NIL
 Surgery of varicose veins and
g. Others  NIL
varicose ulcers
General
( Applicable to all
organ  Internal tumours,
h. systems/organs/ cysts, nodules, polyps, skin  NIL
disciplines tumours
whether or not
described above)
iii. Pre-Existing Diseases – Code – Excl01
a) Expenses related to the treatment of a pre-existing disease (PED) and its direct
complications shall be excluded until the expiry of 36 months of continuous coverage after
the date of inception of the first policy with insurer.
b) In case of enhancement of sum insured the exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent of
sum insured increase.
c) If the insured person is continuously covered without any break as defined under the
portability/migration norms of the extant IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations, then
waiting period for the same would be reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
d) Coverage under the policy after the expiry of 36 months for any pre-existing disease is
subject to the same being declared at the time of application and accepted by insurer.
2. Standard General exclusions
We will not pay for any claim which is caused by, arising from or attributable to:
Non Medical Exclusions 1) Breach of law: Code – Excl10
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any
Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law
with criminal intent.
2) Hazardous or Adventure sports: Code – Excl09
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation
as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not
limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting,
motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving,
deep-sea diving.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
17 | P age

Table Row: e. | Urogenital |  Calculus diseases of
Urogenital system Example:
Kidney stone, Urinary bladder
stone.
 Benign Hyperplasia of
prostate |  Surgery on prostate
 Surgery for Hydrocele/
Rectocele

Table Row: f. | Eye |  Cataract |  NIL

Table Row: g. | Others |  NIL |  Surgery of varicose veins and
varicose ulcers

Table Row: h. | General
( Applicable to all
organ
systems/organs/
disciplines
whether or not
described above) |  Internal tumours,
cysts, nodules, polyps, skin
tumours |  NIL

Table Row: Non Medical Exclusions | 1) Breach of law: Code – Excl10
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or consequent upon any
Insured Person committing or attempting to commit a breach of law
with criminal intent.
2) Hazardous or Adventure sports: Code – Excl09
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to participation
as a professional in hazardous or adventure sports, including but not
limited to, para-jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting,
motor racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky diving,
deep-sea diving.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Medical Exclusions 3) Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive
condition and consequences thereof. Code – Excl12
4) Obesity/ Weight Control: Code – Excl06
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not
fulfil all the below conditions:
i. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
ii. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by
clinical protocols
iii. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
iv. Body Mass Index (BMI);
a) greater than or equal to 40 or
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the
following severe co-morbidities following failure of less
invasive methods of weight loss:
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
ii. Coronary heart disease
iii. Severe Sleep Apnoea
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
5) Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to
refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres: Code – Excl15
6) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code- Excl08
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change
appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s)
or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a
direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be
considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending
Medical Practitioner.
7) Change-of-Gender treatments: Code – Excl07
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management,
to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex.
8) Unproven Treatments:
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies
for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are
treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical
documentation to support their effectiveness. Code – Excl16
9) Investigation & Evaluation: Code – Excl04
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and
evaluation purposes only are excluded.
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental
to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded.
10) Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code – Excl05
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest
and not for receiving treatment. This also includes:
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for
personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as
bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or
assistant or non-skilled persons.
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address
physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.
11) Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas
or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing
home attached to such establishments or where admission is
arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code – Excl13
12) Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased
without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
18 | P age

Table Row: Medical Exclusions | 3) Treatment for Alcoholism, drug or substance abuse or any addictive
condition and consequences thereof. Code – Excl12
4) Obesity/ Weight Control: Code – Excl06
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of obesity that does not
fulfil all the below conditions:
i. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of the Doctor
ii. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be supported by
clinical protocols
iii. The member has to be 18 years of age or older and
iv. Body Mass Index (BMI);
a) greater than or equal to 40 or
b) greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction with any of the
following severe co-morbidities following failure of less
invasive methods of weight loss:
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
ii. Coronary heart disease
iii. Severe Sleep Apnoea
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
5) Expenses related to the treatment for correction of eye sight due to
refractive error less than 7.5 dioptres: Code – Excl15
6) Cosmetic or plastic Surgery: Code- Excl08
Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any treatment to change
appearance unless for reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s)
or Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to remove a
direct and immediate health risk to the insured. For this to be
considered a medical necessity, it must be certified by the attending
Medical Practitioner.
7) Change-of-Gender treatments: Code – Excl07
Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical management,
to change characteristics of the body to those of the opposite sex.
8) Unproven Treatments:
Expenses related to any unproven treatment, services and supplies
for or in connection with any treatment. Unproven treatments are
treatments, procedures or supplies that lack significant medical
documentation to support their effectiveness. Code – Excl16
9) Investigation & Evaluation: Code – Excl04
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for diagnostics and
evaluation purposes only are excluded.
b) Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or not incidental
to the current diagnosis and treatment are excluded.
10) Rest Cure, rehabilitation and respite care: Code – Excl05
a) Expenses related to any admission primarily for enforced bed rest
and not for receiving treatment. This also includes:
i. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility for
personal care such as help with activities of daily living such as
bathing, dressing, moving around either by skilled nurses or
assistant or non-skilled persons.
ii. Any services for people who are terminally ill to address
physical, social, emotional and spiritual needs.
11) Treatments received in heath hydros, nature cure clinics, spas
or similar establishments or private beds registered as a nursing
home attached to such establishments or where admission is
arranged wholly or partly for domestic reasons. Code – Excl13
12) Dietary supplements and substances that can be purchased
without prescription, including but not limited to Vitamins, minerals

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner
as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. Code – Excl14
13) Maternity( except to the extent provided for under Section
B.1.3.a)):Code – Excl18
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including
complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during
hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period.
14) Sterility and Infertility: Code – Excl17
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:
i. Any type of contraception, sterilization
ii. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination
and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT,
ICSI
iii. Gestational Surrogacy
iv. Reversal of sterilization
15) Excluded Providers: Code – Excl11
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any
Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by
the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the
policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life
threatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to the
stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.
3. Specific Exclusions
Non Medical Exclusions 1) Treatment arising from or consequent upon war or any act of
war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, (whether war be declared
or not or caused during service in the armed forces of any
country), civil war, public defence, rebellion, revolution,
insurrection, military or usurped acts, nuclear
weapons/materials, chemical and biological weapons,
radiation of any kind.
2) Intentional self injury or attempted suicide while sane or
insane.
3) Any Insured Person’s participation or involvement in naval,
military or air force operation.
Medical Exclusions 4) Prosthetic and other devices which are self-detachable/removable
without surgery involving anaesthesia
5) Treatment availed outside India.
6) Treatment at a healthcare facility that is not a Hospital
7) Circumcisions (unless necessitated by Illness or injury and forming
part of treatment)
8) Non allopathic treatment except to the extent provided for under
Section B.1.1.h).
9) Conditions for which treatment could have been done on an
outpatient basis without any Hospitalization.
10) Preventive care, vaccination including inoculation and
immunisations (except in case of post-bite treatment)
11) Provision or fitting of hearing aids, spectacles or contact lenses
including optometric therapy, any treatment and associated
expenses for alopecia, baldness, wigs, or toupees, medical supplies
including elastic stockings, diabetic test strips
12) Sleep apnoea.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
19 | P age

Table Row:  | and organic substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner
as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure. Code – Excl14
13) Maternity( except to the extent provided for under Section
B.1.3.a)):Code – Excl18
i. Medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth (including
complicated deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during
hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy;
ii. Expenses towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the policy period.
14) Sterility and Infertility: Code – Excl17
Expenses related to sterility and infertility. This includes:
i. Any type of contraception, sterilization
ii. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial insemination
and advanced reproductive technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT,
ICSI
iii. Gestational Surrogacy
iv. Reversal of sterilization
15) Excluded Providers: Code – Excl11
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or by any
Medical Practitioner or any other provider specifically excluded by
the Insurer and disclosed in its website / notified to the
policyholders are not admissible. However, in case of life
threatening situations or following an accident, expenses up to the
stage of stabilization are payable but not the complete claim.

Table Row: Non Medical Exclusions | 1) Treatment arising from or consequent upon war or any act of
war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, (whether war be declared
or not or caused during service in the armed forces of any
country), civil war, public defence, rebellion, revolution,
insurrection, military or usurped acts, nuclear
weapons/materials, chemical and biological weapons,
radiation of any kind.
2) Intentional self injury or attempted suicide while sane or
insane.
3) Any Insured Person’s participation or involvement in naval,
military or air force operation.

Table Row: Medical Exclusions | 4) Prosthetic and other devices which are self-detachable/removable
without surgery involving anaesthesia
5) Treatment availed outside India.
6) Treatment at a healthcare facility that is not a Hospital
7) Circumcisions (unless necessitated by Illness or injury and forming
part of treatment)
8) Non allopathic treatment except to the extent provided for under
Section B.1.1.h).
9) Conditions for which treatment could have been done on an
outpatient basis without any Hospitalization.
10) Preventive care, vaccination including inoculation and
immunisations (except in case of post-bite treatment)
11) Provision or fitting of hearing aids, spectacles or contact lenses
including optometric therapy, any treatment and associated
expenses for alopecia, baldness, wigs, or toupees, medical supplies
including elastic stockings, diabetic test strips
12) Sleep apnoea.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
13) Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies
14) Expenses incurred by the insured on organ donation
15) Treatment and supplies for analysis and adjustments of spinal
subluxation, diagnosis and treatment by manipulation of the skeletal
structure; muscle stimulation by any means except treatment of
fractures (excluding hairline fractures) and dislocations of the
mandible and extremities.
16) Dental treatment and surgery of any kind, unless requiring
Hospitalisation
17) Any non medical expenses mentioned in List 1 of Annexure I
18) Treatment rendered by a Medical Practitioner which is outside
his discipline or the discipline for which he is licensed.
19) Treatments rendered by a Medical Practitioner who is a
member of the Insured Person’s family or stays with him, however
proven material costs are eligible for reimbursement in accordance
with the applicable cover.
20) Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not of a
reasonable charge and not Medically Necessary.
21) Drugs or treatments which are not supported by a
prescription.
22) Any specific time bound or lifetime exclusion(s) applied by Us
and specified in the Schedule and accepted by the insured.
23) Admission for administration of Intra-articular or Intra-lesional
injections, Supplementary medications like Zolendronic acid (Trade
name Zometa, Reclast, etc.) or IV immunoglobulin infusion
Section D. General Conditions
1. Standard General Conditions
a. Conditions Precedent to admissibility of Liability
The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company
to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the Policy.
b. Claims Settlement (Provision for Penal Interest)
i) The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as the case may be, within 30 days from the
date of receipt of last necessary document.
ii) In the case of delay in the payment of a claim, the Company shall be liable to pay interest
to the Policyholder from the date of receipt of last necessary document to the date of
payment of claim at a rate 2% above the Bank Rate.
iii) However, where the circumstances of a claim warrant an investigation in the opinion of
the Company, it shall initiate and complete such investigation at the earliest, in any case
not later than 30 days from the date of receipt of last necessary document. In such cases,
the Company shall settle or reject the claim within 45 days from the date of receipt of last
necessary document.
iv) In case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the Company shall be liable to pay interest to
the Policyholder at a rate 2% above the Bank Rate from the date of receipt of last
necessary document to the date of payment of claim.
v) We shall be under no obligation to make any payment under this Policy unless We have
received all premium payments in full in time and all payments have been realised and We
have been provided with the documentation and information We has requested to
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
20 | P age

Table Row:  | 13) Congenital external diseases, defects or anomalies
14) Expenses incurred by the insured on organ donation
15) Treatment and supplies for analysis and adjustments of spinal
subluxation, diagnosis and treatment by manipulation of the skeletal
structure; muscle stimulation by any means except treatment of
fractures (excluding hairline fractures) and dislocations of the
mandible and extremities.
16) Dental treatment and surgery of any kind, unless requiring
Hospitalisation
17) Any non medical expenses mentioned in List 1 of Annexure I
18) Treatment rendered by a Medical Practitioner which is outside
his discipline or the discipline for which he is licensed.
19) Treatments rendered by a Medical Practitioner who is a
member of the Insured Person’s family or stays with him, however
proven material costs are eligible for reimbursement in accordance
with the applicable cover.
20) Any treatment or part of a treatment that is not of a
reasonable charge and not Medically Necessary.
21) Drugs or treatments which are not supported by a
prescription.
22) Any specific time bound or lifetime exclusion(s) applied by Us
and specified in the Schedule and accepted by the insured.
23) Admission for administration of Intra-articular or Intra-lesional
injections, Supplementary medications like Zolendronic acid (Trade
name Zometa, Reclast, etc.) or IV immunoglobulin infusion

Table Row: The terms and conditions of the Policy must be fulfilled by the Insured Person for the Company

Table Row: to make any payment for claim(s) arising under the Policy.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
establish the circumstances of the claim, its quantum or Our liability for it, and unless the
Insured Person has complied with his obligations under this Policy.
vi) We will only make payment to You under this Policy. Receipt of payment by You shall be
considered as a complete discharge of Our liability against any claim under this Policy. In the
event of Your death, We will make payment to the Nominee (as named in the Schedule).
vii) The assignment of benefits of the policy shall be subject to applicable law.
viii) Cashless service: If any treatment, consultation or procedure for which a claim may be
made is to be taken at a Network Hospital, then We will provide a cashless service by
making payment to the extent of Our liability direct to the Network Hospital as long as We
are given notice that the Insured Person wishes to take advantage of a cashless service
accompanied by full particulars at least 48 hours before any planned treatment or
Hospitalisation or within 24 hours after the treatment or Hospitalisation in the case of an
emergency.
ix) Healthcare Advisory Benefit: We may suggest alternate Network Provider in specific cases
of surgical or medical treatment, should the Insured member accept and utilize one of the
alternatives suggested he would be eligible for a lump sum benefit of Rs 5000.
Please note: The acceptance of our recommendation is not obligatory on the Insured
member and We are not liable for any outcome of the treatment conducted at the network
centre.
c. Fraud
If any claim made by the Insured Person, is in any respect fraudulent, or if any false statement,
or declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if any fraudulent means or devices are
used by the Insured Person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to obtain any benefit under this
Policy, all benefits under this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.
Any amount already paid against claims made under this Policy but which are found fraudulent
later shall be repaid by all recipient(s)/policyholder(s), who have made that particular claim,
who shall be jointly and severally liable for such repayment to the Insurer.
For the purpose of this clause, the expression "fraud" means any of the following acts committed
by the Insured Person or by his agent or the hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of
the Insured Person, with intent to deceive the insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an
insurance policy:
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not true and which the Insured
Person does not believe to be true;
b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured Person having knowledge or
belief of the fact;
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
d) any such act or omission as the law specially declares to be fraudulent
The Company shall not repudiate the claim and / or forfeit the Policy benefits on the ground of
Fraud, if the Insured Person / beneficiary can prove that the misstatement was true to the best
of his knowledge and there was no deliberate intention to suppress the fact or that such
misstatement of or suppression of material fact are within the knowledge of the Insurer.
d. Multiple Policies
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
21 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
i. In case of multiple policies taken by an Insured Person during a period from one or more
insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the Insured Person shall have the right to require a
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of his/her policies. In all such cases the Insurer
chosen by the Insured Person shall be obliged to settle the claim as long as the claim is within
the limits of and according to the terms of the chosen Policy.
ii. Insured Person having multiple policies shall also have the right to prefer claims under this
Policy for the amounts disallowed under any other policy / policies even if the Sum Insured is
not exhausted. Then the insurer shall independently settle the claim subject to the terms and
conditions of this Policy.
iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the Sum Insured under a single Policy, the Insured Person
shall have the right to choose Insurer from whom he/she wants to claim the balance amount.
iv. Where an Insured Person has policies from more than one Insurer to cover the same risk on
indemnity basis, the Insured Person shall only be indemnified the treatment costs in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the chosen Policy.
e. Renewal of Policy
The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the
insured person.
i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for Renewal. However, the Company is not
under obligation to give any notice for Renewal.
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the Insured Person had made a claim or
claims in the preceding policy years.
iii. Request for Renewal along with requisite premium shall be received by the Company before
the end of the policy period.
iv. At the end of the policy period, the Policy shall terminate and can be renewed within the
Grace Period to maintain continuity of benefits without Break in Policy. Coverage is not
available during the Grace Period.
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on individual claims experience.
f. Cancellation
i) The Policyholder may cancel this policy by giving 15days’ written notice and in such an
event, the Company shall refund premium for the unexpired policy period as detailed
below.
1 Year Policy Period 2 Year Policy Period
Length of time Policy in % of premium Length of time Policy in % of premium
force refunded force refunded
Upto 1 Month 75.00% Upto 1 Month 87.50%
Upto 3 Months 50.00% Upto 3 Months 75.00%
Upto 6 Months 25.00% Upto 6 Months 62.50%
Exceeding 6 Months Nil Upto 12 Months 48.00%
Upto 15 Months 25.00%
Upto 18 Months 12.00%
Exceeding 18 Months Nil
For Policies where premium is paid by instalment, the following additional conditions will be applicable:
i. Where yearly payment option is in force under the Policy, cancellation grid as per 1-Year Tenure
policies will be applicable.
ii. For all other payment options, 50% of current instalment premium will be refunded when the
current period elapsed is less than 6 months from the commencement of the Policy Year. For
instalment after 6 months, no refund will be payable.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
22 | P age

Table Row: 1 Year Policy Period |  | 2 Year Policy Period | 

Table Row: Length of time Policy in
force | % of premium
refunded | Length of time Policy in
force | % of premium
refunded

Table Row: Upto 1 Month | 75.00% | Upto 1 Month | 87.50%

Table Row: Upto 3 Months | 50.00% | Upto 3 Months | 75.00%

Table Row: Upto 6 Months | 25.00% | Upto 6 Months | 62.50%

Table Row: Exceeding 6 Months | Nil | Upto 12 Months | 48.00%

Table Row:  |  | Upto 15 Months | 25.00%

Table Row:  |  | Upto 18 Months | 12.00%

Table Row:  |  | Exceeding 18 Months | Nil

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
iii. In case of admissible claim under the Policy, future instalment for the current Policy Year will
be adjusted in the claim amount and no refund of any premium will be applicable during the
Policy Year.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be
made in respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been admitted or has been lodged or
any benefit has been availed by the Insured Person under the Policy.
ii) The Company may cancel the policy at any time on grounds of misrepresentation non-
disclosure of material facts, fraud by the insured person by giving 15 days’ written notice.
There would be no refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of misrepresentation,
non-disclosure of material facts or fraud.
g. Free Look Period
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new individual health insurance policies and not on
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the Policy.
The Insured Person shall be allowed free look period of fifteen days from date of receipt of the
policy document to review the terms and conditions of the policy, and to return the same if not
acceptable.
If the Insured has not made any claim during the Free Look Period, the insured shall be entitled
to
i. a refund of the premium paid less any expenses incurred by the Company on medical
examination of the Insured Person and the stamp duty charges or
ii. where the risk has already commenced and the option of return of the Policy is exercised by
the Insured Person, a deduction towards the proportionate risk premium for period of cover
or
iii. Where only a part of the insurance coverage has commenced, such proportionate premium
commensurate with the insurance coverage during such period.
h. Disclosure of Information
The policy shall be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the
event of misrepresentation, mis description or non-disclosure of any material fact by the
policyholder.
i. Complete Discharge
Any payment to the Policyholder, Insured Person or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal
representative or assignee or to the Hospital, as the case may be, for any benefit under the
Policy shall be a valid discharge towards payment of claim by the Company to the extent of that
amount for the particular claim.
j. Moratorium Period
After completion of eight continuous years under the policy, no look back to be applied. This period
of eight years is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums
insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable
from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of
Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and
permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all
limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
23 | P age

Table Row: After completion of eight continuous years under the policy, no look back to be applied. This period

Table Row: of eight years is called as Moratorium Period. The moratorium would be applicable for the sums

Table Row: insured of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8 continuous years would be applicable

Table Row: from date of enhancement of sums insured only on the enhanced limits. After the expiry of

Table Row: Moratorium Period no health insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven fraud and

Table Row: permanent exclusions specified in the policy contract. The policies would however be subject to all

Table Row: limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the policy contract

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
k. Portability
The Insured Person will have the option to port the Policy to other insurers by applying to such
Insurer to port the entire policy along with all the members of the family, if any, at least 45 days
before, but not earlier than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines related
to Portability. If such person is presently covered and has been continuously covered without
any lapses under any health insurance policy with an Indian General/Health insurer, the
proposed Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI
guidelines on portability.
For Detailed Guidelines on Portability, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
l. Migration
The Insured Person will have the option to migrate the Policy to other health insurance
products/plans offered by the Company by applying for Migration of the policyatleast30 days
before the policy renewal date as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration. If such person is presently
covered and has been continuously covered without any lapses under any health insurance
product/plan offered by the Company, the Insured Person will get the accrued continuity
benefits in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on Migration.
For Detailed Guidelines on Migration, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
m. Possibility of Revision of terms of the Policy including the Premium Rates
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise or modify the terms of the Policy
including the premium rates. The Insured Person shall be notified three months before the
changes are effected.
n. Withdrawal of Policy
i. In the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in future, the Company will intimate the
Insured Person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of the policy.
ii. Insured Person will have the option to migrate to similar health insurance product
available with the Company at the time of renewal with all the accrued continuity benefits
such as Cumulative Bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI guidelines, provided the
policy has been maintained without a break.
o. Nomination:
The Policyholder is required at the inception of the Policy to make a nomination for the purpose of
payment of claims under the Policy in the event of death of the Policyholder. Any change of nomination
shall be communicated to the Company in writing and such change shall be effective only when an
endorsement on the Policy is made. In the event of death of the Policyholder, the Company will pay the
nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is
no subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal representatives of the Policyholder whose discharge
shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability under the Policy.
p. Premium Payment in Instalments
If the Insured Person has opted for payment of Premium on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly,
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the following Conditions shall apply
(notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy):
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
24 | P age

Table Row: If the Insured Person has opted for payment of Premium on an installment basis i.e. Half Yearly,

Table Row: Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the Policy Schedule, the following Conditions shall apply

Table Row: (notwithstanding any terms contrary elsewhere in the Policy):

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
i. Grace Period as mentioned in the table below would be given to pay the installment premium due
for the Policy
Options Instalment Premium Option Grace Period applicable
Option 1 Multi-Year / Yearly 30 days
Option 2 Half Yearly 30 days
Option 3 Quarterly 30 days
15 Days
Option 4 Monthly
ii. During such Grace Period, coverage will not be available from the due date of installment premium
till the date of receipt of premium by Company
iii. The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”,
“Specific Waiting Periods” in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated Grace Period
iv. No interest will be charged If the installment premium is not paid on due date
v. In case of installment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy will get
cancelled
vi. In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium installments shall immediately become due and
payable
vii. The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim
amount due under the Policy.
Instalment premium payment through Auto Debit/ECS Facility
i. If Option of Premium payment by instalment is opted through auto Debit/ECS facility, Electronic
Clearing Service (ECS) Mandate form needs to be completely filled & signed by the Insured Person.
ii. The Premium amount which would be auto debited & frequency of instalment should be duly filled
in the ECS Mandate form.
iii. New ECS Mandate Form is required to be filled in case of any change in the Premium due to change
of Sum Insured / age / plan /coverages/revision in premium.
iv. The Company should be informed at least 15 days prior to the due date of instalment premium if the
Insured Person wishes to discontinue the ECS facility.
v. Non-payment of premium on due date as opted by the Insured Person in the mandate form subject
to an additional 15 days of relaxation period will lead to termination of the Policy.
q. Redressal of Grievance
In case of any grievance the insured person may contact the Company through:
 Website: www.hdfcergo.com
 Toll free: 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234
 Contact Details for Senior Citizen: 022 6234 6234 / 0120 6234 6234
 E-mail: care@hdfcergo.com
Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company’s branches with the details
of grievance.
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods,
Insured Person may contact the grievance officerat cgo@hdfcergo.com
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link: https://www.hdfcergo.com/customer-
voice/grievances
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
25 | P age

Table Row: . Grace Period as mentioned in the table below would be given to pay the installment premium due

Table Row: for the Policy

Table Row: Options | Instalment Premium Option | Grace Period applicable

Table Row: Option 1 | Multi-Year / Yearly | 30 days

Table Row: Option 2 | Half Yearly | 30 days

Table Row: Option 3 | Quarterly | 30 days

Table Row: Option 4 | Monthly | 15 Days

Table Row: . During such Grace Period, coverage will not be available from the due date of installment premium | 

Table Row: till the date of receipt of premium by Company | 

Table Row: . The Insured Person will get the accrued continuity benefit in respect of the “Waiting Periods”, | 

Table Row: “Specific Waiting Periods” in the event of payment of premium within the stipulated Grace Period | 

Table Row: . No interest will be charged If the installment premium is not paid on due date | 

Table Row: . In case of installment premium due not received within the Grace Period, the Policy will get | 

Table Row: cancelled | 

Table Row: . In the event of a claim, all subsequent premium installments shall immediately become due and | 

Table Row: payable | 

Table Row:  | . The Company has the right to recover and deduct all the pending installments from the claim

Table Row:  | amount due under the Policy.

Table Row: Insured Person may also approach the grievance cell at any of the Company’s branches with the details

Table Row: of grievance.

Table Row: If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through one of the above methods,

Table Row: Insured Person may contact the grievance officerat cgo@hdfcergo.com

Table Row: For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link: https://www.hdfcergo.com/customer-

Table Row: voice/grievances

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Contact Points First Contact Point Escalation level 1 Escalation level 2
https://www.hdfcergo.com
https://www.hdfcergo.co https://www.hdfcergo.com/custo
/customer-
m/customer- mer-care/grievances/escalation
care/grievances/escalation
care/grievances level 2
Contact us at level 1
Call - : 022 6234 6234 / Call - : 022 6234 6234 / 0120
Call - : 022 6234 6234 /
0120 6234 6234 6234 6234
0120 6234 6234
https://www.hdfcergo.com/ https://www.hdfcergo.com/
https://www.hdfcergo.com/
customer-care/grievances customer-care/grievances Call - :
customer-care/grievances
Contact Point for Call - : 022 – 6242 – 6226 022 – 6242 – 6226
Call - : 022 – 6242 – 6226
Senior Citizen Email - Email -
Email -
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com
Write to us at care@hdfcergo.com grievance@hdfcergo.com cgo@hdfcergo.com
The Grievance Cell, The Chief Grievance Officer,
HDFC ERGO General Registered &
Insurance Company Ltd., Corporate Office: HDFC House, 1st
Grievance cell of any of our D-301, 3rd Floor, Floor,
Visit us
Branch office Eastern Business District 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H.
(Magnet Mall), T. Parekh
LBS Marg, Bhandup (West) Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai –
Mumbai-400078 400020
If Insured Person is not satisfied with the redressal of grievance through above methods, the Insured
Person may also approach the office of Insurance Ombudsman of the respective area/region for
redressal of grievance as per Insurance Ombudsman Rules 2017. Grievance may also be lodged at
IRDAI Integrated Grievance Management System - https://igms.irda.gov.in/.
2. Specific General Terms & Conditions
a. Geography
This Policy only covers medical treatment taken within India. All payments under this Policy will
only be made in Indian Rupees within India.
The premium will be computed basis the city of residence provided by the insured person in the
application form. The premium that would be applicable zone wise and the cities defined in
each zone are as under:
 Tier 1 : Delhi, NCR, Mumbai, Thane, Mumbai Suburban and Navi Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad
& Vadodara
 Tier 2 : Rest of India- All other cities
The premium will be modified in case of mid -term address change involving migration from one
zone to another and would be calculated on pro-rata basis.
b. Insured Person
Only those persons named as Insured Persons in the Schedule shall be covered under this Policy.
Any eligible person may be added during the Policy Period after his application has been accepted
by Us and additional premium has been received. Insurance cover for this person shall only
commence once We have issued an endorsement confirming the addition of such person as an
Insured Person.
Any Insured Person in the policy has the option to migrate to similar indemnity health insurance
policy available with us at the time of renewal subject to underwriting with continuity benefit of
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
26 | P age

Table Row: Contact Points | First Contact Point | Escalation level 1 | Escalation level 2

Table Row: Contact us at | https://www.hdfcergo.co
m/customer-
care/grievances
Call - : 022 6234 6234 /
0120 6234 6234 | https://www.hdfcergo.com
/customer-
care/grievances/escalation
level 1
Call - : 022 6234 6234 /
0120 6234 6234 | https://www.hdfcergo.com/custo
mer-care/grievances/escalation
level 2
Call - : 022 6234 6234 / 0120
6234 6234

Table Row: Contact Point for
Senior Citizen | https://www.hdfcergo.com/
customer-care/grievances
Call - : 022 – 6242 – 6226
Email -
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com | https://www.hdfcergo.com/
customer-care/grievances
Call - : 022 – 6242 – 6226
Email -
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com | https://www.hdfcergo.com/
customer-care/grievances Call - :
022 – 6242 – 6226
Email -
seniorcitizen@hdfcergo.com

Table Row: Write to us at | care@hdfcergo.com | grievance@hdfcergo.com | cgo@hdfcergo.com

Table Row: Visit us | Grievance cell of any of our
Branch office | The Grievance Cell,
HDFC ERGO General
Insurance Company Ltd.,
D-301, 3rd Floor,
Eastern Business District
(Magnet Mall),
LBS Marg, Bhandup (West)
Mumbai-400078 | The Chief Grievance Officer,
Registered &
Corporate Office: HDFC House, 1st
Floor,
165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H.
T. Parekh
Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai –
400020

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
waiver of waiting period. provided the policy has been maintained without a break as per
portability/migration guidelines.
If an Insured Person dies, he will cease to be an Insured Person upon Us receiving all relevant
particulars in this regard. We will return a rateable part of the premium received for such person IF
AND ONLY IF there are no claims in respect of that Insured Person under the Policy.
c. Loadings & Discounts
We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable (based upon the declarations made in the
proposal form and the health status of the persons proposed for insurance). The maximum risk
loading applicable for an individual shall not exceed above 100% per diagnosis / medical condition
and an overall risk loading of over 150% per person. These loadings are applied from
Commencement Date of the Policy including subsequent renewal(s) with Us or on the receipt of the
request of increase in Sum Insured (for the increased Sum Insured).
We will inform You about the applicable risk loading through a counter offer letter. You need to
revert to Us with consent and additional premium (if any), within 7 days of the receipt of such
counter offer letter. In case, you neither accept the counter offer nor revert to Us within 7days, We
shall cancel Your application and refund the premium paid within next 7 days.
Please note that We will issue Policy only after getting Your consent and additional premium (if
any). Please visit our nearest branch to refer our underwriting guidelines if required.

We will provide a Family Discount of 5% if 2 members are covered and 10% if 3 or more family
members are covered under a single Easy Health Individual Health Insurance Plan. An additional
discount of 7.5% will be provided if insured person is paying two year premium, in advance as a
single premium. These discounts shall be applicable at inception and renewal of the policy
d. Notification of Claim
Treatment, Consultation or Procedure: We must be notified:
i. If any treatment for which a claim may be made is to Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours
be taken and that treatment requires prior to the Insured Person’s admission.
Hospitalisation:
ii. If any treatment for which a claim may be made is Within 24 hours of the start of the Insured
to be taken and that treatment requires Person’s Hospitalisation.
Hospitalisation in an Emergency:
iii. For all benefits which are contingent on Our prior Within 7 days of the Insured Person’s discharge
acceptance of a claim under Section B-1)a): post-hospitalisation.
e. Cashless Service:
Treatment, Consultation Treatment, Cashless Service We must be given
or Procedure: Consultation or is Available: notice that the Insured
Procedure Taken Person wishes to take
at: advantage of the
cashless service
accompanied by full
particulars.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
27 | P age

Table Row:  | Treatment, Consultation or Procedure: | We must be notified:

Table Row: i. | If any treatment for which a claim may be made is to
be taken and that treatment requires
Hospitalisation: | Immediately and in any event at least 48 hours
prior to the Insured Person’s admission.

Table Row: ii. | If any treatment for which a claim may be made is
to be taken and that treatment requires
Hospitalisation in an Emergency: | Within 24 hours of the start of the Insured
Person’s Hospitalisation.

Table Row: iii. | For all benefits which are contingent on Our prior
acceptance of a claim under Section B-1)a): | Within 7 days of the Insured Person’s discharge
post-hospitalisation.

Table Row:  | Treatment, Consultation
or Procedure: | Treatment,
Consultation or
Procedure Taken
at: | Cashless Service
is Available: | We must be given
notice that the Insured
Person wishes to take
advantage of the
cashless service
accompanied by full
particulars.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
i. If any planned treatment, Network Hospital We will provide At least 48 hours before
consultation or cashless service the planned treatment
procedure for which a by making or hospitalisation.
claim may be made: payment to the
extent of Our
liability directly
to the Network
Hospital.
ii. If Any treatment, Network Hospital We will provide Within 24 hours after
consultation or cashless service the treatment or
procedure for which a by making Hospitalisation.
claim may be made taken payment to the
in an Emergency: extent of Our
liability directly
to the Network
Hospital.
f. Supporting Documentation & Examination
The Insured Person or someone claiming on your behalf shall provide Us with any
documentation, medical records and information We A may request to establish the
circumstances of the claim, its quantum or Our liability for the claim within 15 days of the
earlier of Our request or the Insured Person’s discharge from Hospitalisation or completion of
treatment. The Company may accept claims where documents have been provided after a
delayed interval only in special circumstances and for the reasons beyond the control of the
insured. Such documentation will include but is not limited to the following:
i) Our claim form, duly completed and signed for on behalf of the Insured Person.
ii) Original bills (including but not limited to pharmacy purchase bill, consultation bill,
diagnostic bill and any attachments thereto like receipts or prescriptions in support of any
amount claimed which will then become Our property.
iii) All reports and records, including but not limited to all medical reports, case histories/indoor
case papers, investigation reports, treatment papers, discharge summaries
iv) A precise diagnosis of the treatment for which a claim is made.
v) A detailed list of the individual medical services and treatments provided and a unit price for
each.
vi) Prescriptions that name the Insured Person and in the case of drugs: the drugs prescribed,
their price and a receipt for payment. Prescriptions must be submitted with the corresponding
Medical Practitioner’s invoice
vii) All pre and post investigation, treatment and follow up (consultation) records pertaining to the
present ailment for which claim is being made
viii) All investigation, treatment and follow up records pertaining to the past ailment(s) since their
first diagnoses or detection
ix) Treating doctors certificate regarding missing information in case histories e.g. Circumstance of
injury and Alcohol or drug influence at the time of accident
x) Copy of settlement letter from other insurance company or TPA
xi) Stickers and invoice of implants used during surgery
xii) Copy of MLC (Medico legal case) records and FIR (First information report), in case of claims
arising out of an accident
xiii) Regulatory requirements as amended from time to time, currently mandatory NEFT (to enable
direct credit of claim amount in bank account) and KYC (recent ID/Address proof and
photograph) requirements
xiv) Legal heir certificate
g. The Insured Person will have to undergo medical examination by Our authorised Medical
Practitioner, as and when We may reasonably require, to obtain an independent opinion for the
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
28 | P age

Table Row: i. | If any planned treatment,
consultation or
procedure for which a
claim may be made: | Network Hospital | We will provide
cashless service
by making
payment to the
extent of Our
liability directly
to the Network
Hospital. | At least 48 hours before
the planned treatment
or hospitalisation.

Table Row: ii. | If Any treatment,
consultation or
procedure for which a
claim may be made taken
in an Emergency: | Network Hospital | We will provide
cashless service
by making
payment to the
extent of Our
liability directly
to the Network
Hospital. | Within 24 hours after
the treatment or
Hospitalisation.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
purpose of processing any claim. We will bear the cost towards performing such medical
examination (at the specified location) of the Insured Person.
h. Non Disclosure or Misrepresentation:
i. If at the time of issuance of Policy or during continuation of the Policy, the information provided
to Us in the proposal form or otherwise, by You or the Insured Person or anyone acting on
behalf of You or an Insured Person is found to be incorrect, incomplete, suppressed or not
disclosed, wilfully or otherwise, the Policy shall be:
 Cancelled ab initio from the inception date or the renewal date (as the case may be), or
the Policy may be modified by Us, at our sole discretion, upon 15 day notice by
sending an endorsement to Your address shown in the Schedule and
 The claim under such Policy if any, shall be rejected/repudiated forthwith.
ii. We may also exercise any of the below listed options for the purpose of continuing the health
insurance coverage in case of Non-Disclosure/Misrepresentation of Pre-existing diseases subject
to your prior consent;
a) Permanently exclude the disease/condition and continue with the Policy
b) Incorporate additional waiting period of not exceeding 4 years for the said undisclosed
disease or condition from the date the non-disclosed condition was detected and
continue with the Policy.
c) Levy underwriting loading from the first year of issuance of policy or renewal, whichever
is later.
The above options will not prejudice the rights of the Company to invoke cancellation under
clause i above.
i. Endorsements
This Policy constitutes the complete contract of insurance. This Policy cannot be changed by anyone
(including an insurance agent or broker) except Us. Any change that We make will be evidenced by
a written endorsement signed and stamped by Us.
j. Change of Policyholder
The Policyholder may be changed only at the time of renewal. The new policyholder must be a
member of the Insured Person’s immediate family. Such change would be subject to Our
acceptance and payment of premium (if any). The renewed Policy shall be treated as having
been renewed without break.
The Policyholder may be changed in case of his demise or him moving out of India during the
Policy Period.
k. Notices
Any notice, direction or instruction under this Policy shall be in writing and if it is to:
i) Any Insured Person, it would be sent to You at the address specified in Schedule /
endorsement
ii) Us, shall be delivered to Our address specified in the Schedule.
iii) No insurance agents, brokers or other person/ entity is authorised to receive any notice on Our
behalf.
l. Dispute Resolution Clause
Any and all disputes or differences under or in relation to this Policy shall be determined by the
Indian Courts and subject to Indian law.
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
29 | P age

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Section E. Other Terms & Conditions
1. Claim Related Information
For any claim related query, intimation of claim and submission of claim related documents, You can
contact HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited through:
Customer Service No. 022-62346234 / 0120-62346234
Claim Intimation:
Email: healthclaims@hdfcergo.com
Claim document submission at HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd.
address: Stellar IT Park, Tower-1
5th Floor, C - 25, Sector 62
Noida – 0120 398 8360
Additional Note: Please refer to the list of empanelled network centers on our website or the list
provided in the welcome kit.
2. List of Ombudsman
Jurisdiction of Office
Office Details
Union Territory,District)
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor, Gujarat,
Tilak Marg, Relief Road, Dadra & Nagar Haveli,
Ahmedabad – 380 001. Daman and Diu.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in
BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,
Karnataka.
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in
BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,
Madhya Pradesh
Near New Market,
Chattisgarh.
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra
Orissa.
Panda
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
30 | P age

Table Row: Claim Intimation: | Customer Service No. 022-62346234 / 0120-62346234
Email: healthclaims@hdfcergo.com

Table Row: Claim document submission at
address: | HDFC ERGO General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Stellar IT Park, Tower-1
5th Floor, C - 25, Sector 62
Noida – 0120 398 8360

Table Row: Office Details | Jurisdiction of Office
Union Territory,District)

Table Row: AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th floor,
Tilak Marg, Relief Road,
Ahmedabad – 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in | Gujarat,
Dadra & Nagar Haveli,
Daman and Diu.

Table Row: BENGALURU - Smt. Neerja Shah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building,PID No. 57-27-N-19
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,
JP Nagar, Ist Phase,
Bengaluru – 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in | Karnataka.

Table Row: BHOPAL - Shri Guru Saran Shrivastava
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor,
6, Malviya Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office,
Near New Market,
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in | Madhya Pradesh
Chattisgarh.

Table Row: BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra
Panda
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, | Orissa.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
62, Forest park,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in
CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Punjab,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Haryana(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad,
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D, Sonepat and Bahadurgarh)
Chandigarh – 160 017. Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 Jammu & Kashmir,
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 Ladakh & Chandigarh.
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in
CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Tamil Nadu,
Anna Salai, Teynampet, Tamil Nadu
CHENNAI – 600 018. PuducherryTown and
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 Karaikal (which are part of Puducherry).
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, Delhi &
Asaf Ali Road, Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram,
New Delhi – 110 002. Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in
GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha
Assam,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Meghalaya,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Manipur,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Mizoram,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Arunachal Pradesh,
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Nagaland and Tripura.
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in
HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Andhra Pradesh,
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,
Telangana,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Yanam and
Hyderabad - 500 004.
part of Union Territory of Puducherry.
Tel.: 040 - 23312122
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga
Rajasthan.
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor,
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
31 | P age

Table Row: 62, Forest park,
Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in | 

Table Row: CHANDIGARH - Dr. Dinesh Kumar Verma
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17 – D,
Chandigarh – 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in | Punjab,
Haryana(excluding Gurugram, Faridabad,
Sonepat and Bahadurgarh)
Himachal Pradesh, Union Territories of
Jammu & Kashmir,
Ladakh & Chandigarh.

Table Row: CHENNAI - Shri M. Vasantha Krishna
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,
Anna Salai, Teynampet,
CHENNAI – 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in | Tamil Nadu,
Tamil Nadu
PuducherryTown and
Karaikal (which are part of Puducherry).

Table Row: DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,
Asaf Ali Road,
New Delhi – 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in | Delhi &
Following Districts of Haryana - Gurugram,
Faridabad, Sonepat & Bahadurgarh.

Table Row: GUWAHATI - Shri Kiriti .B. Saha
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor,
Nr. Panbazar over bridge, S.S. Road,
Guwahati – 781001(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in | Assam,
Meghalaya,
Manipur,
Mizoram,
Arunachal Pradesh,
Nagaland and Tripura.

Table Row: HYDERABAD - Shri I. Suresh Babu
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, "Moin Court",
Lane Opp. Saleem Function Palace,
A. C. Guards, Lakdi-Ka-Pool,
Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 23312122
Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in | Andhra Pradesh,
Telangana,
Yanam and
part of Union Territory of Puducherry.

Table Row: JAIPUR - Smt. Sandhya Baliga
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi – II Bldg., Gr. Floor, | Rajasthan.

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Kerala,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road, Lakshadweep,
Ernakulam - 682 015. Mahe-a part of Union Territory of
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338 Puducherry.
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in
KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
West Bengal,
4, C.R. Avenue,
Sikkim,
KOLKATA - 700 072.
Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda,
LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra,
Srivastava
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi,
Lucknow - 226 001.
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti,
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang,
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar,
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli,
Ballia, Sidharathnagar.
MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
Goa,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai Metropolitan Region
Mumbai - 400 054.
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad State of Uttaranchal and the following
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Bhagwan Sahai Palace Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor,
4th Floor, Main Road, Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj,
Naya Bans, Sector 15, Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar, Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah,
U.P-201301. Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar,
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur,
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
32 | P age

Table Row: Bhawani Singh Marg,
Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in | 

Table Row: ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg.,
Opp. Cochin Shipyard, M. G. Road,
Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in | Kerala,
Lakshadweep,
Mahe-a part of Union Territory of
Puducherry.

Table Row: KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
4, C.R. Avenue,
KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in | West Bengal,
Sikkim,
Andaman & Nicobar Islands.

Table Row: LUCKNOW -Shri Justice Anil Kumar
Srivastava
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Lucknow - 226 001.
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in | Districts of Uttar Pradesh :
Lalitpur, Jhansi, Mahoba, Hamirpur, Banda,
Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Mirzapur, Sonbhabdra,
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Jaunpur,Varanasi,
Gazipur, Jalaun, Kanpur, Lucknow, Unnao,
Sitapur, Lakhimpur, Bahraich, Barabanki,
Raebareli, Sravasti, Gonda, Faizabad, Amethi,
Kaushambi, Balrampur, Basti,
Ambedkarnagar, Sultanpur, Maharajgang,
Santkabirnagar, Azamgarh, Kushinagar,
Gorkhpur, Deoria, Mau, Ghazipur, Chandauli,
Ballia, Sidharathnagar.

Table Row: MUMBAI - Shri Milind A. Kharat
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe,
S. V. Road, Santacruz (W),
Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in | Goa,
Mumbai Metropolitan Region
excluding Navi Mumbai & Thane.

Table Row: NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace
4th Floor, Main Road,
Naya Bans, Sector 15,
Distt: Gautam Buddh Nagar,
U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 | State of Uttaranchal and the following
Districts of Uttar Pradesh:
Agra, Aligarh, Bagpat, Bareilly, Bijnor,
Budaun, Bulandshehar, Etah, Kanooj,
Mainpuri, Mathura, Meerut, Moradabad,
Muzaffarnagar, Oraiyya, Pilibhit, Etawah,
Farrukhabad, Firozbad, Gautambodhanagar,
Ghaziabad, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hapur,

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha,
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.
PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,
Bazar Samiti Road, Bihar,
Bahadurpur, Jharkhand.
Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
Maharashtra,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.
Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
This Policy is subject to regulation 12 of IRDAI (Protection of Policyholder’s Interests) Regulations 2017.
Schedule of Benefits – Easy Health Individual
Standard Exclusive
Sum Insured per 15.00,20.00,
1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50,
Insured Person 3.00, 4.00, 25.00, 50.00
3.00, 4.00, 7.50,10.00
per Policy Year 5.00
5.00,7.5,10,15
(Rs. in Lakh)
1 a) In-patient
Covered Covered
Treatment
1 b) Pre-
Covered Covered
hospitalization
1 c) Post-
Covered Covered
hospitalization
1 d) Day Care
Covered Covered
Procedures
1 e) Domiciliary
Covered Covered
Treatment
1 f) Organ
Covered Covered
Donor
1 g)) Emergency Upto Rs.2000 per
Upto Rs.2000 per hospitalisation
Ambulance hospitalisation
1 h) Ayush Upto Rs
Upto Rs 20,000 Upto Rs 25,000
Benefit 50,000
1 i) Daily Cash Rs.500 per Rs.1000 per
Rs.800 per day,
for choosing Rs.500 per day, day, day,
Maximum
Shared Maximum Rs.3,000 Maximum Maximum
Rs.4,800
Accommodation Rs.3,000 Rs.6,000
2 a) Daily Cash Rs.300 per Rs.500 per day, Rs.800 per
Not Covered
for day, Maximum day,
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
33 | P age

Table Row: Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in | Shamli, Rampur, Kashganj, Sambhal, Amroha,
Hathras, Kanshiramnagar, Saharanpur.

Table Row: PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor,Kalpana Arcade Building,,
Bazar Samiti Road,
Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006.
Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in | Bihar,
Jharkhand.

Table Row: PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198,
N.C. Kelkar Road, Narayan Peth,
Pune – 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in | Maharashtra,
Area of Navi Mumbai and Thane
excluding Mumbai Metropolitan Region.

Table Row:  | Standard | Exclusive |  | 

Table Row: Sum Insured per
Insured Person
per Policy Year
(Rs. in Lakh) | 1.00, 1.50, 2.00, 2.50,
3.00, 4.00,
5.00,7.5,10,15 | 3.00, 4.00,
5.00 | 7.50,10.00 | 15.00,20.00,
25.00, 50.00

Table Row: 1 a) In-patient
Treatment | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 b) Pre-
hospitalization | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 c) Post-
hospitalization | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 d) Day Care
Procedures | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 e) Domiciliary
Treatment | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 f) Organ
Donor | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 g)) Emergency
Ambulance | Upto Rs.2000 per
hospitalisation | Upto Rs.2000 per hospitalisation |  | 

Table Row: 1 h) Ayush
Benefit | Upto Rs 20,000 | Upto Rs 25,000 |  | Upto Rs
50,000

Table Row: 1 i) Daily Cash
for choosing
Shared
Accommodation | Rs.500 per day,
Maximum Rs.3,000 | Rs.500 per
day,
Maximum
Rs.3,000 | Rs.800 per day,
Maximum
Rs.4,800 | Rs.1000 per
day,
Maximum
Rs.6,000

Table Row: 2 a) Daily Cash
for | Not Covered | Rs.300 per
day, | Rs.500 per day,
Maximum | Rs.800 per
day,

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
accompanying Maximum Rs.15,000 Maximum
an insured child Rs.9,000 Rs.24,000
2 b) Newborn Additional Benefit on payment of additional
Not Covered
baby premium
2 c) Recovery
Not Covered Not Covered
Benefit Rs 10,000
Upto Rs.2.5
2 d) Emergency
Not covered Not covered Lacs per
Air Ambulance
hospitalisation
Normal Normal
Delivery Rs. Delivery Rs.
15,000* Normal Delivery 30,000*
Caesarean Rs. 25,000* Caesarean
Delivery Rs. Caesarean Delivery Rs.
25,000* Delivery Rs. 50,000*
(* Including 40,000* (* Including
3 a) Maternity
Pre/Post Natal (* Including Pre/Post Natal
Expenses Not Covered
limit of Pre/Post Natal limit of Rs.
Rs.1,500 and limit of Rs. 2,500 5,000 and
New Born and New Born New Born
limit of limit of Rs.3,500) limit of
Rs.2,000) [Waiting Period Rs.5,000)
[Waiting of 6 years] [Waiting
Period of 6 Period of 4
years] Years]
Optional, if
opted then
Optional, if opted then the Critical
the Critical Illness Sum Illness Sum
4 Critical Illness Insured 50% or 100% of Optional, if opted then the Critical Insured will be
(Optional In-patient Sum Insured Illness Sum Insured will be 50% or 50% or 100%
benefit) subject to minimum of 100% of In-patient Sum Insured of In-patient
Rs 100,000 upto a Sum Insured
maximum of Rs. 10 Lacs upto a
maximum of
Rs 10 Lacs
Additional 10% of Base Sum Insured on continuous renewal for each claim free
5.1 .Cumulative
year subject to maximum 100% of Base Sum Insured. Reduced by 10% of Base
Bonus
Sum Insured in event of a claim each year
Upto 8% discount on renewal premium subject to insured member achieving
the average number of steps in each time interval prescribed in the grid by
5.2. Stay Active
either walking or running regularly to keep fit. Dependent children covered will
not be considered for calculation of average steps.
Upto 1% of Sum Insured
per Insured Person upto Upto 1% of Sum Insured subject to a Maximum of
5.3. Health Rs.5000, only once at Rs.5,000 per Insured Person, only once at the end
Checkup the end of a block of of a block of every continuous three policy years
every continuous four
claim free years.
Benefits under 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 are subject to pre-authorisation by HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Limited
Schedule of Benefits – Easy Health Family
Standard Exclusive
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
34 | P age

Table Row: accompanying
an insured child |  | Maximum
Rs.9,000 | Rs.15,000 | Maximum
Rs.24,000

Table Row: 2 b) Newborn
baby | Not Covered | Additional Benefit on payment of additional
premium |  | 

Table Row: 2 c) Recovery
Benefit | Not Covered | Not Covered |  | Rs 10,000

Table Row: 2 d) Emergency
Air Ambulance | Not covered | Not covered |  | Upto Rs.2.5
Lacs per
hospitalisation

Table Row: 3 a) Maternity
Expenses | Not Covered | Normal
Delivery Rs.
15,000*
Caesarean
Delivery Rs.
25,000*
(* Including
Pre/Post Natal
limit of
Rs.1,500 and
New Born
limit of
Rs.2,000)
[Waiting
Period of 6
years] | Normal Delivery
Rs. 25,000*
Caesarean
Delivery Rs.
40,000*
(* Including
Pre/Post Natal
limit of Rs. 2,500
and New Born
limit of Rs.3,500)
[Waiting Period
of 6 years] | Normal
Delivery Rs.
30,000*
Caesarean
Delivery Rs.
50,000*
(* Including
Pre/Post Natal
limit of Rs.
5,000 and
New Born
limit of
Rs.5,000)
[Waiting
Period of 4
Years]

Table Row: 4 Critical Illness
(Optional
benefit) | Optional, if opted then
the Critical Illness Sum
Insured 50% or 100% of
In-patient Sum Insured
subject to minimum of
Rs 100,000 upto a
maximum of Rs. 10 Lacs | Optional, if opted then the Critical
Illness Sum Insured will be 50% or
100% of In-patient Sum Insured |  | Optional, if
opted then
the Critical
Illness Sum
Insured will be
50% or 100%
of In-patient
Sum Insured
upto a
maximum of
Rs 10 Lacs

Table Row: 5.1 .Cumulative
Bonus | Additional 10% of Base Sum Insured on continuous renewal for each claim free
year subject to maximum 100% of Base Sum Insured. Reduced by 10% of Base
Sum Insured in event of a claim each year |  |  | 

Table Row: 5.2. Stay Active | Upto 8% discount on renewal premium subject to insured member achieving
the average number of steps in each time interval prescribed in the grid by
either walking or running regularly to keep fit. Dependent children covered will
not be considered for calculation of average steps. |  |  | 

Table Row: 5.3. Health
Checkup | Upto 1% of Sum Insured
per Insured Person upto
Rs.5000, only once at
the end of a block of
every continuous four
claim free years. | Upto 1% of Sum Insured subject to a Maximum of
Rs.5,000 per Insured Person, only once at the end
of a block of every continuous three policy years |  | 

Table Row: Benefits under 5.1, 5.2, 5.3 are subject to pre-authorisation by HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Limited |  |  |  | 

Table Row:  | Standard | Exclusive | 

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
Sum Insured per 15.00,20.00,
Policy per Policy 2.00, 3.00, 4.00, 3.00, 4.00, 25.00, 50.00
7.50,10.00
Year (Rs. in 5.00,7.50,10.00,15.00 5.00
Lakh)
1 a) In-patient
Covered Covered
Treatment
1 b) Pre-
Covered Covered
hospitalization
1 c) Post-
Covered Covered
hospitalization
1 d) Day Care
Covered Covered
Procedures
1 e) Domiciliary
Covered Covered
Treatment
1 f) Organ
Covered Covered
Donor
1 g)) Emergency Upto Rs.2000 per
Upto Rs.2000 per hospitalisation
Ambulance hospitalisation
1 h) Ayush Upto Rs 50,000
Upto Rs 20,000 Upto Rs 25,000
Benefit
1 i) Daily Cash Rs.500 per Rs.800 per Rs.1000 per day,
for choosing Rs.500 per day, day, day, Maximum Rs.6,000
Shared Maximum Rs.3,000 Maximum Maximum
Accommodation Rs.3,000 Rs.4,800
2 a) Daily Cash Rs.300 per Rs.500 per Rs.800 per day,
for day, day, Maximum Rs.24,000
Not Covered
accompanying Maximum Maximum
an insured child Rs.9,000 Rs.15,000
2 b) Newborn
Not Covered Additional Benefit on payment of additional premium
baby
2 c) Recovery
Not Covered Not Covered Rs 10,000
Benefit
2 d) Emergency Upto Rs.2.5 Lacs per
Not covered Not covered
Air Ambulance hospitalisation
Normal Normal Normal Delivery Rs.
Delivery Rs. Delivery Rs. 30,000*
15,000* 25,000* Caesarean Delivery Rs.
Caesarean Caesarean 50,000*
Delivery Rs. Delivery Rs. (* Including Pre/Post
25,000* 40,000* Natal limit of Rs. 5,000
(* Including (* Including and New Born limit of
3 a) Maternity
Pre/Post Pre/Post Rs.5,000)
Expenses Not Covered
Natal limit of Natal limit [Waiting Period of 3
Rs.1,500 and of Rs. 2,500 Years]
New Born and New
limit of Born limit of
Rs.2,000) Rs.3,500)
[Waiting [Waiting
Period 4 Period 4
years] years]
4 Critical Illness Optional, if opted Optional, if opted then the Optional, if opted then
(Optional then the Critical Critical Illness Sum Insured the Critical Illness Sum
benefit) Illness Sum Insured will be 50% or 100% of In- Insured will be 50% or
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
35 | P age

Table Row: Sum Insured per
Policy per Policy
Year (Rs. in
Lakh) | 2.00, 3.00, 4.00,
5.00,7.50,10.00,15.00 | 3.00, 4.00,
5.00 | 7.50,10.00 | 15.00,20.00,
25.00, 50.00

Table Row: 1 a) In-patient
Treatment | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 b) Pre-
hospitalization | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 c) Post-
hospitalization | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 d) Day Care
Procedures | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 e) Domiciliary
Treatment | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 f) Organ
Donor | Covered | Covered |  | 

Table Row: 1 g)) Emergency
Ambulance | Upto Rs.2000 per
hospitalisation | Upto Rs.2000 per hospitalisation |  | 

Table Row: 1 h) Ayush
Benefit | Upto Rs 20,000 | Upto Rs 25,000 |  | Upto Rs 50,000

Table Row: 1 i) Daily Cash
for choosing
Shared
Accommodation | Rs.500 per day,
Maximum Rs.3,000 | Rs.500 per
day,
Maximum
Rs.3,000 | Rs.800 per
day,
Maximum
Rs.4,800 | Rs.1000 per day,
Maximum Rs.6,000

Table Row: 2 a) Daily Cash
for
accompanying
an insured child | Not Covered | Rs.300 per
day,
Maximum
Rs.9,000 | Rs.500 per
day,
Maximum
Rs.15,000 | Rs.800 per day,
Maximum Rs.24,000

Table Row: 2 b) Newborn
baby | Not Covered | Additional Benefit on payment of additional premium |  | 

Table Row: 2 c) Recovery
Benefit | Not Covered | Not Covered |  | Rs 10,000

Table Row: 2 d) Emergency
Air Ambulance | Not covered | Not covered |  | Upto Rs.2.5 Lacs per
hospitalisation

Table Row: 3 a) Maternity
Expenses | Not Covered | Normal
Delivery Rs.
15,000*
Caesarean
Delivery Rs.
25,000*
(* Including
Pre/Post
Natal limit of
Rs.1,500 and
New Born
limit of
Rs.2,000)
[Waiting
Period 4
years] | Normal
Delivery Rs.
25,000*
Caesarean
Delivery Rs.
40,000*
(* Including
Pre/Post
Natal limit
of Rs. 2,500
and New
Born limit of
Rs.3,500)
[Waiting
Period 4
years] | Normal Delivery Rs.
30,000*
Caesarean Delivery Rs.
50,000*
(* Including Pre/Post
Natal limit of Rs. 5,000
and New Born limit of
Rs.5,000)
[Waiting Period of 3
Years]

Table Row: 4 Critical Illness
(Optional
benefit) | Optional, if opted
then the Critical
Illness Sum Insured | Optional, if opted then the
Critical Illness Sum Insured
will be 50% or 100% of In- |  | Optional, if opted then
the Critical Illness Sum
Insured will be 50% or

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
50% or 100% of In- patient Sum Insured 100% of In-patient Sum
patient Sum Insured Insured upto a maximum
subject to minimum of Rs 10 Lacs
of Rs 100,000 upto a
maximum of Rs 10
Lacs
Additional 10% of Base Sum Insured on continuous renewal for each claim free
year subject to maximum 100% of Base Sum Insured. Reduced by 10% of Base
5.1. Cumulative Sum Insured in event of a claim each year. In relation to a Family Floater, the
bonus cumulative bonus so applied will only be available in respect of claims made by
those Insured Persons who were Insured Persons in the claim free Policy Year
and continue to be Insured Persons in the subsequent Policy Year.
Upto 8% discount on renewal premium subject to insured member achieving the
average number of steps in each time interval prescribed in the grid by either
5.2. Stay Active walking or running regularly to keep fit. In a floater policy it would be an average
of all adult members covered. Dependent children covered will not be
considered for calculation of average steps.
Upto 1% of Sum
Insured per Policy Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy subject to a
upto Rs.5000, only Maximum of Rs. 5,000 per Insured Person, only once at
5.3. Health
once at the end of a the end of a block of every continuous three policy
Checkup
block of every years.
continuous four claim
free years
Benefits under 5.1,5.2,5.3 are subject to pre-authorisation by HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Limited
Annexure I –
List I - Items for which coverage is not available in the policy
S. Item S. Item
No. No.
1 BABY FOOD 35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE
HOSPITAL)
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 36 SPACER
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 37 SPIROMETRE
4 BELTS/ BRACES 38 NEBULIZER KIT
5 BUDS 39 STEAM INHALER
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK 40 ARMSLING
7 CARRY BAGS 41 THERMOMETER
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES 42 CERVICAL COLLAR
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN 43 SPLINT
PATIENT'S DIET PROVIDED BY
HOSPITAL)
10 LEGGINGS 44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES 45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)
12 MINERAL WATER 46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER
13 SANITARY PAD 47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
15 GUEST SERVICES 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
16 CREPE BANDAGE 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
36 | P age

Table Row:  | 50% or 100% of In-
patient Sum Insured
subject to minimum
of Rs 100,000 upto a
maximum of Rs 10
Lacs | patient Sum Insured | 100% of In-patient Sum
Insured upto a maximum
of Rs 10 Lacs

Table Row: 5.1. Cumulative
bonus | Additional 10% of Base Sum Insured on continuous renewal for each claim free
year subject to maximum 100% of Base Sum Insured. Reduced by 10% of Base
Sum Insured in event of a claim each year. In relation to a Family Floater, the
cumulative bonus so applied will only be available in respect of claims made by
those Insured Persons who were Insured Persons in the claim free Policy Year
and continue to be Insured Persons in the subsequent Policy Year. |  | 

Table Row: 5.2. Stay Active | Upto 8% discount on renewal premium subject to insured member achieving the
average number of steps in each time interval prescribed in the grid by either
walking or running regularly to keep fit. In a floater policy it would be an average
of all adult members covered. Dependent children covered will not be
considered for calculation of average steps. |  | 

Table Row: 5.3. Health
Checkup | Upto 1% of Sum
Insured per Policy
upto Rs.5000, only
once at the end of a
block of every
continuous four claim
free years | Upto 1% of Sum Insured per Policy subject to a
Maximum of Rs. 5,000 per Insured Person, only once at
the end of a block of every continuous three policy
years. | 

Table Row: Benefits under 5.1,5.2,5.3 are subject to pre-authorisation by HDFC ERGO General Insurance
Limited |  |  | 

Table Row: S.
No. | Item | S.
No. | Item

Table Row: 1 | BABY FOOD | 35 | OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE
HOSPITAL)

Table Row: 2 | BABY UTILITIES CHARGES | 36 | SPACER

Table Row: 3 | BEAUTY SERVICES | 37 | SPIROMETRE

Table Row: 4 | BELTS/ BRACES | 38 | NEBULIZER KIT

Table Row: 5 | BUDS | 39 | STEAM INHALER

Table Row: 6 | COLD PACK/HOT PACK | 40 | ARMSLING

Table Row: 7 | CARRY BAGS | 41 | THERMOMETER

Table Row: 8 | EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES | 42 | CERVICAL COLLAR

Table Row: 9 | FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN
PATIENT'S DIET PROVIDED BY
HOSPITAL) | 43 | SPLINT

Table Row: 10 | LEGGINGS | 44 | DIABETIC FOOT WEAR

Table Row: 11 | LAUNDRY CHARGES | 45 | KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)

Table Row: 12 | MINERAL WATER | 46 | KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER

Table Row: 13 | SANITARY PAD | 47 | LUMBO SACRAL BELT

Table Row: 14 | TELEPHONE CHARGES | 48 | NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES

Table Row: 15 | GUEST SERVICES | 49 | AMBULANCE COLLAR

Table Row: 16 | CREPE BANDAGE | 50 | AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT

Table Row: 17 | DIAPER OF ANY TYPE | 51 | ABDOMINAL BINDER

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
18 EYELET COLLAR 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING
CHARGES
19 SLINGS 53 SUGAR FREE TABLETS
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS 54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE
MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING 55 ECG ELECTRODES
CHARGE ALSO CHARGED
22 TELEVISION CHARGES 56 GLOVES
23 SURCHARGES 57 NEBULISATION KIT
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES 58 ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED
[DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN 59 KIDNEY TRAY
THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED
CHARGE)
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE 60 MASK
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES 61 OUNCE GLASS
28 COURIER CHARGES 62 OXYGEN MASK
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES 63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 64 PAN CAN
31 MEDICAL RECORDS 65 TROLLY COVER
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES 66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
33 MORTUARY CHARGES 67 AMBULANCE
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES 68 VASOFIX SAFETY
List II – Items that are to be subsumed into Room Charges
Sl Item
No
1 BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)
2 HAND WASH
3 SHOE COVER
4 CAPS
5 CRADLE CHARGES
6 COMB
7 EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS
8 FOOT COVER
9 GOWN
10 SLIPPERS
11 TISSUE PAPER
12 TOOTH PASTE
13 TOOTH BRUSH
14 BED PAN
15 FACE MASK
16 FLEXI MASK
17 HAND HOLDER
18 SPUTUM CUP
19 DISINFECTANT LOTIONS
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
37 | P age

Table Row: 18 | EYELET COLLAR | 52 | PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING
CHARGES

Table Row: 19 | SLINGS | 53 | SUGAR FREE TABLETS

Table Row: 20 | BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS
MATCHING OF DONORS SAMPLES | 54 | CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (TOILETRIES ARE
NOT PAYABLE, ONLY PRESCRIBED MEDICAL
PHARMACEUTICALS PAYABLE)

Table Row: 21 | SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING
CHARGE ALSO CHARGED | 55 | ECG ELECTRODES

Table Row: 22 | TELEVISION CHARGES | 56 | GLOVES

Table Row: 23 | SURCHARGES | 57 | NEBULISATION KIT

Table Row: 24 | ATTENDANT CHARGES | 58 | ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS MENTIONED
[DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT, RECOVERY KIT, ETC]

Table Row: 25 | EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN
THAT WHICH FORMS PART OF BED
CHARGE) | 59 | KIDNEY TRAY

Table Row: 26 | BIRTH CERTIFICATE | 60 | MASK

Table Row: 27 | CERTIFICATE CHARGES | 61 | OUNCE GLASS

Table Row: 28 | COURIER CHARGES | 62 | OXYGEN MASK

Table Row: 29 | CONVEYANCE CHARGES | 63 | PELVIC TRACTION BELT

Table Row: 30 | MEDICAL CERTIFICATE | 64 | PAN CAN

Table Row: 31 | MEDICAL RECORDS | 65 | TROLLY COVER

Table Row: 32 | PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES | 66 | UROMETER, URINE JUG

Table Row: 33 | MORTUARY CHARGES | 67 | AMBULANCE

Table Row: 34 | WALKING AIDS CHARGES | 68 | VASOFIX SAFETY

Table Row: Sl
No | Item

Table Row: 1 | BABY CHARGES (UNLESS SPECIFIED/INDICATED)

Table Row: 2 | HAND WASH

Table Row: 3 | SHOE COVER

Table Row: 4 | CAPS

Table Row: 5 | CRADLE CHARGES

Table Row: 6 | COMB

Table Row: 7 | EAU-DE-COLOGNE / ROOM FRESHNERS

Table Row: 8 | FOOT COVER

Table Row: 9 | GOWN

Table Row: 10 | SLIPPERS

Table Row: 11 | TISSUE PAPER

Table Row: 12 | TOOTH PASTE

Table Row: 13 | TOOTH BRUSH

Table Row: 14 | BED PAN

Table Row: 15 | FACE MASK

Table Row: 16 | FLEXI MASK

Table Row: 17 | HAND HOLDER

Table Row: 18 | SPUTUM CUP

Table Row: 19 | DISINFECTANT LOTIONS

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
20 LUXURY TAX
21 HVAC
22 HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES
23 AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES
24 IM IV INJECTION CHARGES
25 CLEAN SHEET
26 BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET
27 ADMISSION KIT
28 DIABETIC CHART CHARGES
29 DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
30 DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES
31 DAILY CHART CHARGES
32 ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES
33 EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE
34 FILE OPENING CHARGES
35 INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)
36 PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG
37 PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES
List III – Items that are to be subsumed into Procedure Charges
Sl Item
No.
1 HAIR REMOVAL CREAM
2 DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)
3 EYE PAD
4 EYE SHEILD
5 CAMERA COVER
6 DVD, CD CHARGES
7 GAUSE SOFT
8 GAUZE
9 WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES
10 ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS
11 MICROSCOPE COVER
12 SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER
13 SURGICAL DRILL
14 EYE KIT
15 EYE DRAPE
16 X-RAY FILM
17 BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES
18 COTTON
19 COTTON BANDAGE
20 SURGICAL TAPE
21 APRON
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
38 | P age

Table Row: 20 | LUXURY TAX

Table Row: 21 | HVAC

Table Row: 22 | HOUSE KEEPING CHARGES

Table Row: 23 | AIR CONDITIONER CHARGES

Table Row: 24 | IM IV INJECTION CHARGES

Table Row: 25 | CLEAN SHEET

Table Row: 26 | BLANKET/WARMER BLANKET

Table Row: 27 | ADMISSION KIT

Table Row: 28 | DIABETIC CHART CHARGES

Table Row: 29 | DOCUMENTATION CHARGES / ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Table Row: 30 | DISCHARGE PROCEDURE CHARGES

Table Row: 31 | DAILY CHART CHARGES

Table Row: 32 | ENTRANCE PASS / VISITORS PASS CHARGES

Table Row: 33 | EXPENSES RELATED TO PRESCRIPTION ON DISCHARGE

Table Row: 34 | FILE OPENING CHARGES

Table Row: 35 | INCIDENTAL EXPENSES / MISC. CHARGES (NOT EXPLAINED)

Table Row: 36 | PATIENT IDENTIFICATION BAND / NAME TAG

Table Row: 37 | PULSEOXYMETER CHARGES

Table Row: Sl
No. | Item

Table Row: 1 | HAIR REMOVAL CREAM

Table Row: 2 | DISPOSABLES RAZORS CHARGES (for site preparations)

Table Row: 3 | EYE PAD

Table Row: 4 | EYE SHEILD

Table Row: 5 | CAMERA COVER

Table Row: 6 | DVD, CD CHARGES

Table Row: 7 | GAUSE SOFT

Table Row: 8 | GAUZE

Table Row: 9 | WARD AND THEATRE BOOKING CHARGES

Table Row: 10 | ARTHROSCOPY AND ENDOSCOPY INSTRUMENTS

Table Row: 11 | MICROSCOPE COVER

Table Row: 12 | SURGICAL BLADES, HARMONICSCALPEL,SHAVER

Table Row: 13 | SURGICAL DRILL

Table Row: 14 | EYE KIT

Table Row: 15 | EYE DRAPE

Table Row: 16 | X-RAY FILM

Table Row: 17 | BOYLES APPARATUS CHARGES

Table Row: 18 | COTTON

Table Row: 19 | COTTON BANDAGE

Table Row: 20 | SURGICAL TAPE

Table Row: 21 | APRON

HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited
22 TORNIQUET
23 ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE
List IV – Items that are to be subsumed into costs of treatment
Sl Item
No.
1 ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES
2 HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE
3 URINE CONTAINER
4 BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES
5 BIPAP MACHINE
6 CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS
7 INFUSION PUMP– COST
8 HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC
9 NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES
10 HIV KIT
11 ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH
12 LOZENGES
13 MOUTH PAINT
14 VACCINATION CHARGES
15 ALCOHOL SWABES
16 SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM
17 Glucometer& Strips
18 URINE BAG
HDFC ERGO General Insurance Company Limited. IRDAI Reg. No.146. CIN: U66030MH2007PLC177117. Registered &
Corporate Office: 1st Floor, HDFC House, 165-166 Backbay Reclamation, H. T. Parekh Marg, Churchgate, Mumbai – 400
020. Trade Logo displayed above belongs to HDFC Ltd and ERGO International AG and used by the Company under
license. Easy Health UIN: HDFHLIP23024V072223
39 | P age

Table Row: 22 | TORNIQUET

Table Row: 23 | ORTHOBUNDLE, GYNAEC BUNDLE

Table Row: Sl
No. | Item

Table Row: 1 | ADMISSION/REGISTRATION CHARGES

Table Row: 2 | HOSPITALISATION FOR EVALUATION/ DIAGNOSTIC PURPOSE

Table Row: 3 | URINE CONTAINER

Table Row: 4 | BLOOD RESERVATION CHARGES AND ANTE NATAL BOOKING CHARGES

Table Row: 5 | BIPAP MACHINE

Table Row: 6 | CPAP/ CAPD EQUIPMENTS

Table Row: 7 | INFUSION PUMP– COST

Table Row: 8 | HYDROGEN PEROXIDE\SPIRIT\ DISINFECTANTS ETC

Table Row: 9 | NUTRITION PLANNING CHARGES - DIETICIAN CHARGES- DIET CHARGES

Table Row: 10 | HIV KIT

Table Row: 11 | ANTISEPTIC MOUTHWASH

Table Row: 12 | LOZENGES

Table Row: 13 | MOUTH PAINT

Table Row: 14 | VACCINATION CHARGES

Table Row: 15 | ALCOHOL SWABES

Table Row: 16 | SCRUB SOLUTION/STERILLIUM

Table Row: 17 | Glucometer& Strips

Table Row: 18 | URINE BAG

## SOURCE: ICIHLIP22012V012223.pdf
For Buy/ Renew/ Service/ Claim related queries Log on to www.icicilombard.com or call 1800 2666
Golden Shield
Policy Wording
b. Preamble theatre where surgical procedures are to be
carried out;
This Policy has been issued on the basis of the Disclosure to
information Norm, including the information provided by iv. Maintaining daily records of the patients and
Proposer in respect of the Insured Persons in the Proposal making them accessible to the insurance
Form, any application for insurance cover in respect of any company’s authorized representative
Insured Person and any other information or details
AYUSH Day Care Centre means and includes
submitted in relation to the Proposal Form. This Policy is a
Community Health Centre (CHC), Primary Health
contract of insurance between You and Us which is subject
Centre (PHC), Dispensary, Clinic, Polyclinic or any such
to the receipt of premium in full and accepted by Us in
health centre which is registered with the local
respect of the Insured Persons and the terms, conditions
authorities, wherever applicable and having facilities
and exclusions as specified in the Policy/ Policy Schedule /
for carrying out treatment procedures and medical or
Product Benefit Table of this Policy.
surgical/para-surgical interventions or both under the
c. Definitions supervision of registered AYUSH Medical Practitioner
(s) on day care basis without in- patient services and
For the purposes of this Policy, the terms specified below
must comply with all the following criterion:
shall have the meaning set forth wherever appearing/
specified in this Policy or related Extensions: a. Having qualified registered AYUSH Medical
Practitioner(s) in charge;
Where the context so requires, references to the singular
shall also include references to the plural and references to b. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as
any gender shall include references to all genders. Further required and/or has equipped operation theatre
any references to statutory enactment include subsequent where surgical procedures are to be carried out;
changes to the same.
c. Maintaining daily records of the patients and
i. Standard definitions (Definitions whose wordings making them accessible to the insurance
are specified by IRDAI) company’s authorized representative.
Accident means a sudden, unforeseen and involuntary (Explanation: Medical practitioner referred in the
event caused by external, visible and violent means. definition of “AYUSH Hospital” and “AYUSH day care
center” shall carry the same meaning as defined in the
Any one illness means continuous Period of illness and
definition of “Medical practitioner” under chapter I of
it includes relapse within 45 days from the date of last
Guidelines)
consultation with the Hospital/Nursing Home where
treatment was taken. Cashless Facility means a facility extended by the
insurer to the insured where the payments, of the costs
Ayush Hospital is a healthcare facility wherein
of treatment undergone by the insured in accordance
medical/surgical/para-surgical treatment procedures
with the policy terms and conditions, are directly made
and interventions are carried out by AYUSH Medical
to the network provider by the insurer to the extent pre-
practitioner(s) comprising of any of the following:
authorization approved.
a. Central or State government AYUSH hospital; or
Condition Precedent shall mean a policy term or
b. Teaching hospital attached to AYUSH college
condition upon which the Insurer's liability under the
recognized by the central government/Central
policy is conditional upon.
council of Indian medicine/ Central council for
Congenital Anomaly refers to a condition(s) which is
Homeopathy; or
present since birth, and which is abnormal with
c. AYUSH Hospital, standalone or co-located with in-
reference to form, structure or position.
patient healthcare facility of any recognized
a. Internal Congenital Anomaly -Congenital anomaly
system of medicine, registered with the local
which is not in the visible and accessible parts of
authorities, wherever applicable, and is under the
the body
supervision of a qualified registered AYUSH
medical practitioner and must comply with the b. External Congenital Anomaly- Congenital
following criterion: anomaly which is in the visible and accessible
parts of the body
i. Having at least 5 in-patient beds
Co-payment means a cost sharing requirement under
ii. Having qualified AYUSH medical practitioner
a health insurance policy that provides that the
in charge round the clock
policyholder/insured/proposer will bear a specified
iii. Having dedicated AYUSH therapy sections as
percentage of the admissible claims amount. A co-
required and/or has equipped operation
payment does not reduce the Sum Insured.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 1 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
Cumulative Bonus shall mean any increase or addition Grace Period means the specified period of time
in the Sum Insured granted by the insurer without an immediately following the premium due date during
associated increase in premium. which a payment can be made to renew or continue a
policy in force without loss of continuity benefits such
Day care centre means any institution established for
as waiting periods and coverage of Pre Existing
day care treatment of illness and/or injuries or a
Diseases. Coverage is not available for the period for
medical setup with a hospital and which has been
which no premium is received.
registered with the local authorities, wherever
applicable, and is under supervision of a registered and Hospital means any institution established for in-
qualified medical practitioner AND must comply with patient care and day care treatment of illness and / or
all minimum criterion as under :- injuries and which has been registered as a hospital
a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment; with the local authorities under the Clinical
Establishments (Registration and Regulations) Act
b. has qualified medical practitioner/s in charge
2010 or under enactments specified under the
c. has fully equipped operation theatre of its own
Schedule of Section 56(1) of the said Act Or comply
where surgical procedures are carried out;
with all minimum criteria as under:
d. maintains daily records of patients and will make
a. has qualified nursing staff under its employment
these accessible to the insurance company’s
round the clock;
authorized personnel
b. has at least 10 inpatient beds, in those towns
Day Care Treatment refers to medical treatment, and/
having a population of less than 10,00,000 and 15
or Surgical Procedure which is
inpatient beds in all other places
i. undertaken under General or Local Anesthesia in a
c. has qualified medical practitioner(s) in charge
Hospital/ Day care centre in less than 24 hrs
round the clock;
because of technological advancement, and
d. has a fully equipped operation theatre of its own
ii. which would have otherwise required a
where surgical procedures are carried out
hospitalisation of more than 24 hours.
e. maintains daily records of patients and makes
Treatment normally taken on an out-patient basis is
these accessible to the Insurance company’s
not included in the scope of this definition.
authorized personnel.
Deductible is a cost sharing requirement under a
Hospitalisation means admission in a Hospital for a
health insurance policy that provides that provides
minimum period of 24 consecutive in-patient care
that the insurer will not be liable for specified rupee
hours except for specified Procedures/Treatments,
amount in case of indemnity policies and for a specified
where such admission could be for a period of less than
number of days/hours in case of hospital cash policies,
24 consecutive hours.
which will apply before any benefits are payable by the
insurer A deductible does not reduce the sum insured. Inpatient care means treatment for which the insured
person has to stay in a Hospital for more than 24 hours
Dental treatment means a treatment related to teeth
for a covered event.
or structures supporting teeth including examinations,
fillings (where appropriate), crowns, extractions and Illness means a sickness or disease or pathological
surgery. condition leading to the impairment of normal
physiological function and requires medical treatment.
Disclosure to information Norm means the policy shall
be void and all premium paid thereon shall be forfeited a. Acute condition - Acute condition is a disease,
to the Company in the event of misrepresentation, mis- illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to
description or non-disclosure of any material fact. treatment which aims to return the person to his or
her state of health immediately before suffering
Domiciliary Hospitalisation means medical treatment
the disease/illness/injury which leads to full
for an illness/disease/injury which in the normal course
recovery.
would require care and treatment at a hospital but is
actually taken while confined at home under any of the b. Chronic condition - A chronic condition is defined
following circumstances: as a disease, illness, or injury that has one or more
a. the condition of the patient is such that he/she is of the following characteristics:
not in a condition to be removed to a hospital, or i. it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring
b. the patient takes treatment at home on account of through consultations, examinations, check-
non-availability of room in a hospital. ups, and / or tests
Emergency Care means management for an illness or ii. it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief
injury which results in symptoms which occur suddenly of symptoms
and unexpectedly, and requires immediate care by a iii. it requires your rehabilitation for the patient or
medical practitioner to prevent death or serious long for the patient to be specially trained to cope
term impairment of the insured person’s health with it
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 2 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
iv. it continues indefinitely Health insurance policy), to transfer the credit gained
for pre-existing conditions and time bound exclusions,
v. It recurs or is likely to recur
with the same insurer.
Injury means any accidental physical bodily harm,
Network Provider means hospitals or health care
excluding illness or disease solely and directly caused
providers enlisted by an insurer, TPA or jointly by an
by external, violent, visible and evident means which is
insurer and TPA to provide medical services to an
verified and certified by a Medical Practitioner.
insured by a cashless facility.
Intensive Care Unit means an identified section, ward
Non-Network Provider means any Hospital, day care
or wing of a hospital which is under the constant
centre or other provider that is not part of the Network.
supervision of a dedicated medical practitioner(s), and
which is specially equipped for the continuous Notification of claim means the process of intimating a
monitoring and treatment of patients who are in a claim to the insurer or TPA through any of the
critical condition, or require life support facilities and recognized modes of communication
where the level of care and supervision is considerably
OPD treatment is one in which the Insured visits a
more sophisticated and intensive than in the ordinary
clinic / hospital or associated facility like a consultation
and other wards
room for diagnosis and treatment based on the advice
ICU (Intensive Care Unit) Charges means the amount of a Medical Practitioner. The Insured is not admitted as
charged by a Hospital towards ICU expenses which a day care or in-patient.
shall include the expenses for ICU bed, general medical
Portability means the right accorded to an individual
support services provided to any ICU patient including
health insurance policyholder/proposers (including all
monitoring devices, critical care nursing and intensivist
members under family cover), to transfer the credit
charges.
gained for pre-existing conditions and time bound
Maternity expenses means; exclusions, from one insurer to another insurer
a. medical treatment expenses traceable to childbirth Pre-existing Disease means any condition, ailment,
(including complicated deliveries and caesarean injury or disease
sections incurred during Hospitalisation);
a. That is/ are diagnosed by a physician within 48
b. expenses towards lawful medical termination of months prior to the effective date of the policy
pregnancy during the policy period. issued by the insurer or its reinstatement or
Medical Advice means any consultation or advice from b. For which medical advice or treatment was
a Medical Practitioner including the issuance of any recommended by, or received from, a physician
prescription or follow-up prescription. within 48 months prior to the effective date of the
policy issued by the insurer or its reinstatement.
Medical Expenses means those expenses that an
Insured Person has necessarily and actually incurred Post-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means
for medical treatment on account of Illness or Accident medical expenses incurred during predefined number
on the advice of a Medical Practitioner, as long as these of days immediately after the Insured Person is
are no more than would have been payable if the discharged from the hospital, provided that :
Insured Person had not been insured and no more than
a. Such Medical Expenses are for the same condition
other hospitals or doctors in the same locality would
for which the Insured Person’s Hospitalisation was
have charged for the same medical treatment.
required, and
Medically Necessary Treatment is defined as any
b. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such
treatment, tests medication or stay in hospital or part
Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance
of a stay in Hospital which
Company.
1. Is required for the medical management of the
Pre-Hospitalisation Medical Expenses means
illness or Injury suffered by the insured
medical expenses incurred during predefined number
2. Must not exceed the level of care necessary to of days preceding the hospitalization of the insured
provide safe, adequate and appropriate medical person, provided that:
care in scope, duration or intensity
a. Such Medical Expenses are incurred for the same
3. Must have been prescribed by a Medical condition for which the Insured Person’s
practitioner Hospitalisation was required, and
4. Must conform to the professional standard widely b. The In-patient Hospitalisation claim for such
accepted in international medical practice or by the Hospitalisation is admissible by the Insurance
medical community in India Company.
Migration means the right accorded to health Qualified Nurse is a person who holds a valid
insurance policyholders/proposers (including all registration from the Nursing Council of India or the
members under family cover and members of group Nursing Council of any state in India.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 3 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
Reasonable and Customary Charges means the the Policy Schedule and is/are hereinafter referred as
charges for services or supplies, which are the “You”/“Your”/ “Yours”/ “Yourself”
standard charges for the specific provider and
Medical Practitioner is a person who holds a valid
consistent with the prevailing charges in the
registration from the Medical Council of any State or
geographical area for identical or similar services,
Medical Council of India or Council for Indian Medicine
taking into account the nature of Illness/injury involved.
or for Homeopathy set up by the Government of India
Renewal defines the terms on which the contract of or a State Government and is thereby entitled to
insurance can be renewed on mutual consent with a practice medicine within its jurisdiction; and is acting
provision of grace period for treating the renewal within the scope and jurisdiction of his license.
continuous for the purpose of gaining credit for pre-
The term Medical Practitioner would include physician,
existing diseases, time-bound exclusions and for all
specialist, anaesthetist and surgeon but would exclude
waiting periods.
You and Your spouse, Your children, Your brother(s),
Room Rent means the amount charged by a hospital Your sister(s) and Your parent(s).
towards Room and Boarding expenses and shall
Period of Insurance means the period as specifically
include associated medical expenses.
appearing in the Policy Schedule and commencing
Subrogation shall mean the right of the insurer to from the Policy Period Start Date of the first Policy
assume the rights of the insured person to recover taken by You from Us and then, running concurrent to
expenses paid out under the policy that may be Your current Policy subject to the Your continuous
recovered from any other source. renewal of such Policy with Us.
Surgery or Surgical Procedure means manual and/or Policy means these Policy wordings, the Policy
operative procedure (s) required for treatment of an Schedule and any applicable endorsements or
illness or injury, correction of deformities and defects, extensions attaching to or forming part thereof. The
diagnosis and cure of diseases, relief of suffering or Policy contains details of the extent of cover available
prolongation of life, performed in a hospital or day care to You, what is excluded from the cover and the terms &
centre by a Medical Practitioner conditions on which the Policy is issued to You.
Unproven/Experimental treatment means treatment Proposer means the person(s) or the entity named in
including drug experimental therapy which is not the Policy Schedule who executed the Policy Schedule
based on established medical practice in India, is and is (are) responsible for payment of premium(s).
treatment experimental or unproven.
Policy Period means the period commencing from the
ii. Specific definitions (Definitions other than those Policy Period Start Date, Time and ending at the Policy
mentioned under c. I. above) Period End Date, Time of the Policy and as specifically
appearing in the Policy Schedule.
Admission means Your admission in a Hospital as an
inpatient for the purpose of medical treatment of an Policy Year means a period of twelve months
Injury and/or Illness. beginning from the Policy Period Start Date and ending
on the last day of such twelve-month period. For the
AYUSH treatments refers to the medical aid and / or
purpose of subsequent years, “Policy Year” shall mean
hospitalisation treatments given under ‘Ayurveda,
a period of twelve months beginning from the end of
Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and
the previous Policy Year and lapsing on the last day of
Homeopathy systems
such twelve-month period, till the Policy Period End
Annual Sum Insured means and denotes the
Date, as specified in the Policy Schedule
maximum amount of cover available to You during
Service Provider means any person, organization,
each Policy Year of the Policy Period, as stated in the
institution, or company that has been empanelled with
Policy Schedule or any revisions thereof based on
Us to provide services specified under the Benefits
Claim settled under the Policy.
(including add-ons) to The Insured person. These shall
Break in Policy occurs at the end of the existing policy
also include all healthcare providers empanelled to
term, when the premium due for renewal on a given
form a part of network other than hospitals.
policy is not paid on or before the premium renewal
The list of the Service Providers is available at our
date or within 30 days thereof.
website (https://www.icicilombard.com/content/ilom-
Claim means a demand made by You or on Your behalf
en/serviceprovider/search.asp) and is subject to
for payment of Medical Expenses or any other
amendment from time to time.
expenses or benefits, as covered under the Policy.
You/Your/ Yours/ Yourself means the person(s) that
Immediate Family means spouse, dependent children,
We insure and is/are specifically named as Insured /
brother(s), sister(s) and dependent parent(s) of the
Insured Person(s) in the Policy Schedule.
insured.
We/ Our/ Ours/ Us means the ICICI Lombard General
Insured/Insured Person(s) means the individual(s)
Insurance Company Limited
whose name(s) is/are specifically appearing as such in
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 4 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
d. Benefits covered under the policy proportion of the difference between room rent of the
entitled room category to the room rent actually
The Benefits listed in base cover are in-built benefits and
incurred
shall be available to all Insured Persons in accordance with
the procedures set out in this Policy wording. a. For the purpose of this cover, “Associated medical
expenses” shall include room rent, nursing
This Policy covers Allopathic and AYUSH treatments taken
charges, operation theatre charges, fees of
in India ONLY. Any expenses incurred outside the policy
medical practitioner including surgeon/
period will NOT be covered.
anaesthetist / specialist within the same hospital
Any claims made under any of the benefits mentioned
where the insured person has been admitted and
below (except Care management program, Care
will not include the cost of pharmacy and
management plus program,) will impact eligibility for
consumables, cost of implants, medical devices
Additional Sum Insured.
and cost of diagnostics.
Any unutilized annual sum insured/tele-consultations/e-
b. Proportionate deductions are not applicable for
consultations/benefits cannot be carried forward to the
ICU charges
next policy year.
c. Proportionate deductions shall not be applicable
Base Cover
for hospitals which do not follow differential billing
1. In Patient Treatment or for those expenses in respect of which
We will cover the following Medical Expenses incurred in differential billing is not adopted based on the
respect of Hospitalization of the Insured Person during the room category.
Policy Period, up to the Annual Sum Insured specified in the vi. Expenses associated with automation machine for
Policy Schedule against this Benefit: peritoneal dialysis shall not be payable
i. Room Rent up to Twin sharing room (for Annual Sum
vii. Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate
Insured below ` 10 Lacs and Single private AC room for
exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum
annual sum insured ` 10L and above);
insured / cumulative bonus (if any) as specified in the
ii. Intensive Care Unit Charges; Policy Schedule against this Benefit.
iii. Qualified Nurse charges; 2. Day Care Treatment
iv. Medical Practitioner’s Fees ; We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of
the Day Care Treatment of the Insured Person during the
v. Anaesthesia, blood, oxygen, operation theatre
Policy Period provided that:
charges, medicines, drugs and consumables (other
than those specified in the list of excluded expenses i. The Day Care Treatment is for Medically Necessary
(non-medical) in Annexure I; Treatment.
vi. Surgical appliances and prosthetic devices ii. The Day Care Treatment follows the written advice of a
recommended in writing by the attending Medical Medical Practitioner.
Practitioner and that are used intra operatively during
iii. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and
a Surgical Procedure;
Customary Charges.
vii. Cost of investigative tests or prescribed diagnostic
iv. We will also cover Medical Expenses incurred for
procedures directly related to the Injury/Illness for
procedures including but not limited to intravenous
which the Insured Person is Hospitalized;
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, hemodialysis or any
We will consider a claim under this Benefit, subject to the other therapeutic procedure which requires a period of
following: specialized observation or medical care after
i. The Hospitalization is for Medically Necessary completion of the procedure.
Treatment. v. We will not cover any Out Patient Treatment or
ii. The hospitalization warrants inpatient admission in diagnostic services under this Benefit.
view of active line of treatment. vi. Expenses associated with automation machine for
iii. The Hospitalization commences and continues on the peritoneal dialysis shall not be payable
written advice of a Medical Practitioner. vii. Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate
iv. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and exceed the Sum Insured and additional sum insured/
Customary Charges. cumulative bonus (if any) specified in the Policy
Schedule against this Benefit.
v. If the Insured Person is admitted in a room category/
limit that is higher than the one that is specified in the 3. Coverage for Modern Treatments
Policy Schedule/ Product benefit table of this policy, We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of
then the Insured Person shall bear a rateable Hospitalization of the Insured Person for the below
proportion of the total Associated medical expenses mentioned modern treatments during the Policy Period, up
(including surcharges or taxes thereon) in the to the Annual Sum Insured
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 5 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
Sr. No. Treatment/Procedure ii. We have accepted the claim under “Inpatient
Treatment” in respect of the Insured Person.
1 Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High
intensity focused ultrasound) iii. We will also consider Post-hospitalization Medical
Expenses incurred on Physiotherapy provided that
2 Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to
such Physiotherapy is advised in writing by the
be given as injection
treating Medical Practitioner and is Medically
3 Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser
Necessary Treatment. This service will be provided on
treatment or holmium laser treatment)
a reimbursement and/ or cashless basis where ever
4 Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells applicable.
for bone marrow transplant for
iv. Expenses incurred on nursing care at home are
haematological conditions
excluded from the scope of post hospitalization
5 Balloon Sinuplasty expenses.
6 Oral Chemotherapy v. Any Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses payable
7 Robotic surgeries* during the Policy period shall not in aggregate exceed
the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum insured
8 Stereotactic radio Surgeries
/cumulative bonus (if any) as specified in the Policy
9 Deep Brain stimulation Schedule against this Benefit.
10 Intra vitreal injections 6. Donor Expenses
11 Bronchical Thermoplasty We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of
12 IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring) an organ donor’s Hospitalization during the Policy Period
for the harvesting of the organ donated to the Insured
Robotic surgeries shall be subject to sub-limits as
Person provided that:
mentioned under d. benefits covered under the policy
Base cover 15 Sub-limits applicable i. The organ donation conforms to the Transplantation of
Human Organs Act 1994 and the organ is for the use of
4. Pre Hospitalisation expenses
the Insured Person;
We will cover the Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses
ii. We will cover only those Medical Expenses incurred in
incurred in respect of the Insured Person for up to 60days
respect of an organ donor as an in-patient in the
immediately before the Insured Person’s Admission to
Hospital.
Hospital provided that:
iii. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and
i. The Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred are
Customary Charges.
Reasonable and Customary Charges.
iv. Any Medical Expenses payable during the Policy
ii. We have accepted the claim under “d. Benefits covered
period shall not in aggregate exceed the Annual Sum
under the policy Base cover 1. Inpatient Treatment” in
Insured and additional sum insured /cumulative bonus
respect of the Insured Person.
(if any) as specified in the Policy Schedule against this
iii. We shall not be liable to make any payment in respect
Benefit subject to an overall limit of ` 10,00,000 only
of any Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred
v. We have accepted a claim under Section “Inpatient
prior to the Policy Period Start Date of the first policy
treatment” in respect of the Insured Person.
with Us in respect of the Insured Person.
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit
iv. Expenses incurred on nursing care at home are
which arises directly or indirectly for or in connection with
excluded from the scope of pre hospitalization
any of the following:
expenses.
i. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post-
v. This Benefit will be provided on a reimbursement basis
hospitalization Medical Expenses of the organ donor.
only.
ii. Screening expenses of the organ donor.
vi. Any Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses payable
shall not in aggregate exceed the Annual Sum Insured iii. Any other Medical Expenses as a result of the
and additional sum insured /cumulative bonus (if any) harvesting from the organ donor.
as specified in the Policy Schedule against this Benefit iv. Costs directly or indirectly associated with the
5. Post Hospitalisation expenses acquisition of the donor’s organ (other than
hospitalisation costs involved).
We will cover the Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses
incurred in respect of the Insured Person for up to 180 days v. Transplant of any organ/tissue where the transplant is
immediately following the Insured Person’s discharge from experimental or investigational.
Hospital provided that: vi. Expenses related to organ transportation or
i. The Post-hospitalization Medical Expenses incurred preservation.
are Reasonable and Customary Charges. vii. Expenses incurred by an Insured Person as a donor.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 6 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Sr. No. | Treatment/Procedure

Table Row: 1 | Uterine Artery Embolization and HIFU (High
intensity focused ultrasound)

Table Row: 2 | Immunotherapy- Monoclonal Antibody to
be given as injection

Table Row: 3 | Vaporisation of the prostrate (Green laser
treatment or holmium laser treatment)

Table Row: 4 | Stem cell therapy: Hematopoietic stem cells
for bone marrow transplant for
haematological conditions

Table Row: 5 | Balloon Sinuplasty

Table Row: 6 | Oral Chemotherapy

Table Row: 7 | Robotic surgeries*

Table Row: 8 | Stereotactic radio Surgeries

Table Row: 9 | Deep Brain stimulation

Table Row: 10 | Intra vitreal injections

Table Row: 11 | Bronchical Thermoplasty

Table Row: 12 | IONM - (Intra Operative Neuro Monitoring)

Golden Shield
viii. Any other medical treatment or complication in respect d. The condition of the Insured Person is expected to
of the donor, consequent to harvesting. improve in a reasonable and foreseeable period of
time.
7. Domiciliary Hospitalization
e. Prior approval from Us has been taken. The Home care
We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of
treatment is availed only on a cashless basis, subject to
the Domiciliary Hospitalization of the Insured Person
availability of our empanelled service provider(s).
during the Policy Period provided that :
Kindly visit our website for cities/locations where such
i. The Domiciliary Hospitalization is for Medically
services are available.
Necessary Treatment.
f. Treatment availed is not categorized under “AYUSH” or
ii. The Domiciliary Hospitalization commences and
any form of non- allopathic treatment
continues on the written advice of a Medical
g. Such treatment cannot be provided on outpatient basis
Practitioner.
However in case of unavailability of our empanelled service
iii. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and
provider in the insured person’s location, in case the insured
Customary Charges.
person intends to avail the services of non-network
iv. The Domiciliary Hospitalization continues for at least 3
provider and claims for reimbursement, a prior approval
consecutive days in which case We will make payment
from Us needs to be taken before availing such services.
under this Benefit in respect of Medical Expenses
In case the insured person breaches the conditions of
incurred from the first day of Domiciliary
approval or fails to take the prior written approval from Us,
Hospitalization.
we are not liable to settle any claim under this section.
v. Any Medical Expenses payable shall not in aggregate
For the purpose of this benefit, Home care treatment shall
exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional sum
include:
insured /cumulative bonus (if any) as specified in the
Policy Schedule against this Benefit. a. Diagnostic tests underwent at home as advised by
medical practitioner
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit
which arises directly or indirectly from or in connection with b. Medicines prescribed in writing by a medical
any of the following: practitioner
a) Asthma, bronchitis, tonsillitis and upper respiratory c. Consultation charges of the medical practitioner
tract infection including laryngitis and pharyngitis,
d. Nursing charges if advised by the medical practitioner
cough and cold, influenza;
Any expenses payable during the Policy period shall not in
b) Arthritis, gout and rheumatism;
aggregate exceed the Annual Sum Insured and additional
c) Ailments of spine/disc sum insured /cumulative bonus (if any) as specified in the.
d) Chronic nephritis and nephritic syndrome; 9. In Patient AYUSH Hospitalization
e) Any liver disease; We will cover the Medical Expenses incurred in respect of
the Insured Person’s AYUSH Treatment during the Policy
f) Peptic ulcer
Period up to the Annual Sum Insured specified in the Policy
g) Diarrhea and all type of dysenteries, including
Schedule provided that:
gastroenteritis;
i. The Medical Expenses incurred are Reasonable and
h) Diabetes mellitus and insipidus;
Customary Charges.
i) Epilepsy;
ii. The Insured Person is Hospitalized for AYUSH
j) Hypertension; Treatment at a AYUSH hospital or an AYUSH Day-care
k) Pyrexia of any origin centre.
8. Home Care Treatment iii. The Insured Person’s Hospitalization commences and
continues on the written advice of the treating Medical
We will cover the medical expenses incurred by the Insured
Practitioner.
person on home care treatment maximum up to 5% of
Annual Sum Insured provided that : iv. Any Medical Expenses payable during the Policy
period shall not in aggregate exceed the Annual Sum
a. The Medical Practitioner advices the Insured Person to
Insured and additional sum insured /cumulative bonus
undergo treatment at home
(if any) as specified in the Policy Schedule against this
b. There is a continuous active line of treatment with Benefit.
monitoring of the health status by a medical
v. This Benefit will be provided on a reimbursement and/
practitioner for each day through the duration of the
or on cashless basis where ever applicable.
home care treatment.
We shall not be liable to pay for any claim under this Benefit
c. Daily monitoring chart including records of the
which arises directly or indirectly for or in connection with
treatment duly signed by the treating doctor is
any of the following:
maintained.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 7 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
i. Pre-hospitalization Medical Expenses or Post- rapid ambulance transportation from the place where
hospitalization Medical Expenses. the Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring
Emergency Care to a hospital provided that the
ii. Any expenses incurred for the purpose of evaluation or
transportation is for Medically Necessary Treatment, is
investigation.
certified in writing by a Medical Practitioner, and road
10. Domestic road ambulance cover
ambulance services cannot be provided.
We will cover the expenses incurred on road ambulance
b. Such air ambulance providing the services, should be
services which are offered by a healthcare or ambulance
duly licensed to operate as such by a competent
service provider and which have been used during the
government Authority.
Policy Period to transfer the Insured Person to the nearest
c. This cover is limited to transportation from the area of
Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for the
emergency to the nearest Hospital only;
provision of Emergency Care, provided that:
d. We will not cover:
• Our maximum liability under this Benefit for every
claim arising during the Policy Year will be restricted to a. Any transportation from one Hospital to another;
1% of the Annual Sum insured maximum up to
b. Any transportation of the Insured Person from
`10,000;
Hospital to the Insured Person’s residence after
• We have accepted a claim under “Inpatient treatment” he/she has been discharged from the Hospital
in respect of the Insured Person for the same
c. Any transportation or air ambulance expenses
Accident/Illness for which road ambulance services
incurred outside the geographical scope of India.
were availed.
e. We have accepted a claim under Inpatient treatment in
• This Benefit includes and is limited to the cost of the
respect of the Insured Person for the same
transportation of the Insured Person:
Accident/Illness for which air ambulance services were
a) From the place of injury/illness to the nearest availed.
hospital
f. We shall not be liable if Medically Necessary Treatment
b) To the nearest Hospital with higher medical can be provided at the Hospital where the Insured
facilities which is prepared to admit the Insured Person is situated at the time of requiring Emergency
Person and provide the necessary medical Care.
services if such medical services cannot
12. Base Co-payment
satisfactorily be provided at a Hospital where the
This policy will be subject to 50% base co-payment and
Insured Person is situated, and only if that
He/She shall be liable to pay 50% of admissible claim
transportation has been prescribed in writing by a
amount of each and every claim. Base Co-payment once
Medical Practitioner and is for Medically
chosen cannot be changed mid-term. Modification of co-
Necessary Treatment.
payment may happen only during renewal subject to
c) From a Hospital to the nearest diagnostic centre
underwriting. In case, base co-payment is reduced during
during the course of Hospitalization for advanced
renewal, fresh waiting periods shall be applicable on the
diagnostic treatment in circumstances where such
modified portion of base co-payment.
facility is not available in the existing Hospital.
i. Base Co-payment shall be applicable to all benefits
• The ambulance / service provider providing the
under the policy except any benefits availed under
services be a registered provider with road traffic
Care management program, Care management plus
authority.
program, preventive health check-up,.
Any expenses in relation to transportation of the Insured
ii. Base Co-payment shall not be applicable in case
Person from Hospital to the Insured Person’s residence
voluntary deductible has been opted for.
while transferring an Insured Person after he/she has been
13. Cumulative Bonus/ Additional Sum Insured
discharged from the Hospital are not payable under this
Benefit. We will provide a Cumulative Bonus of 10% of the Annual
Sum insured at the end of each Policy Year if the expiring
11. Air Ambulance
Policy has been claim free and is continuously renewed
We will cover the expenses up to the Annual sum insured
with Us. The Cumulative Bonus will not be accumulated for
incurred on air ambulance services in respect of an Insured
more than 100% of the Annual Sum insured under any
Person which are offered by a healthcare or an air
circumstances.
ambulance service provider and which have been used
i. In case where the policy is on a floater basis the
during the Policy Period to transfer the Insured Person to
cumulative bonus will be on floater basis and for
the nearest Hospital with adequate emergency facilities for
individual policy the same will be on an individual
the provision of Emergency Care, provided that:
basis.
a. It is for a life threatening emergency health condition/s
ii. In case where the policy is on a floater basis, the
of the Insured Person which requires immediate and
cumulative bonus will be accrued only if no claims have
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 8 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
been made in respect of all Insured Person(s) in the x. If the Annual Sum Insured under the Policy has been
expiring policy period. increased at the time of Renewal the Cumulative Bonus
shall be calculated on the Annual Sum Insured of the
iii. In a floater policy as specified in the Policy Schedule,
last completed Policy Year.
the Cumulative Bonus so accrued during the previous
Policy Year(s) will only be available to those Insured xi. In the event of a Claim under the Policy during any
Person(s) who were insured in previous Policy Year(s) subsequent Policy Year, the accrued cumulative bonus
and continue to be insured with Us in the subsequent shall not be reduced.
Policy Year(s).
14. Reset Benefit
iv. Cumulative Bonus will not be added if the Policy is not
We will reset the Annual Sum insured up to 100% of the
renewed with Us by the end of the Grace Period.
Annual Sum insured unlimited times, for all future claims
v. Cumulative bonus can be utilised only when the within the same policy not related to the illness / disease /
Annual Sum Insured is completely exhausted. injury for which a claim has been paid for the same insured
person in a Policy Year as stated in the Policy Schedule,
vi. If the Policy Period is two or three years, any
provided that:
Cumulative Bonus that has accrued for the first/second
Policy Year will be credited at the end of the first/second i. The Annual Sum insured including additional sum
Policy Year as the case may be and will be available for insured /Cumulative Bonus (if any) in respect of the
any claims made in the subsequent Policy Year. Insured Person is insufficient as a result of previous
claims paid in that Policy Year.
vii. If the Insured Persons in the expiring policy are covered
on an individual basis as specified in the Policy ii. The total amount of reset will not exceed the Annual
Schedule and there is an accumulated Cumulative Sum Insured for that policy year.
Bonus for each Insured Person under the expiring
iii. The Reset Benefit will be applied only if the claim is
policy, and such expiring policy has been Renewed
made and admissible under “Inpatient Treatment” or
with Us on a floater policy basis as specified in the
“Daycare Procedure”.
Policy Schedule then the Cumulative Bonus to be
iv. The Reset Benefit will not be triggered for the first claim
carried forward for credit in such Renewed Policy shall
made during the Policy Year.
be the lowest among all the Insured Persons.
v. The Reset benefit will be triggered only once and not
viii. In case of floater policies where Insured Persons
unlimited times for all future claims within the same
Renew their expiring policy with Us by splitting the
policy which are related to the illness/disease/injury for
Annual Sum Insured in to individual policies the
which a claim has already been paid/registered for the
Cumulative Bonus of the expiring policy shall be
same insured person.
apportioned to such Renewed Policies in the
proportion of the Annual Sum Insured of each vi. For individual policies, reset Sum Insured will be
Renewed Policy as detailed in table below. available on individual basis whereas for floater
policies, it will be available on floater basis.
Annual Accumulate Revised Revised
vii. For any single claim during a Policy Year , the maximum
Floater Sum dC umulative Floater AnnualS um Accumulated
Insured bonus/ policy split Insuredo f Cumulative claim amount payable shall not exceed the sum of
Additional to individual each bonus/ • The Annual Sum insured;
SumI nsured policies with individual Additional
• additional sum insured /Cumulative Bonus;
(after5 c laim Annual Sum policy SumI nsured
freey ears) Insured of ofe ach viii. The Reset Benefit will not be available for an Illness /
10 Lacs each individual Injury or related complications including but not limited
policy to any relapse within 45 days in respect of which a
20 L ac 10 L ac 10 Lac 5 Lac claim has been paid in that Policy Year for the same
Insured Person.
ix. If the Annual Sum Insured has been reduced at the time
ix. Any unutilized Reset Benefit will not be carried forward
of Renewal, the applicable Cumulative Bonus shall be
to any subsequent Policy Years.
reduced in the same proportion to the Annual Sum
Insured as detailed in table below x. During a Policy Year, the aggregate claim amount
payable, shall not exceed the sum of:
Annual S um Accumulated Revised Revised
Insured Cumulative Annual Sum Accumulated • The Annual Sum Insured
bonus/ Annual Sum Insured Cumulative • additional sum insured /Cumulative Bonus
Additional bonus/
Insured
• Reset Sum Insured
SumI nsured Additional
reduced to
(after5 c laim SumI nsured
` 10 Lacs
freey ears)
20 L ac 10 L ac 10 Lac 5 Lac
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 9 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Annual
Floater Sum
Insured | Accumulate
dC umulative
bonus/
Additional
SumI nsured
(after5 c laim
freey ears) | Floater
policy split
to individual
policies with
Annual Sum
Insured of
10 Lacs each | Revised
AnnualS um
Insuredo f
each
individual
policy | Revised
Accumulated
Cumulative
bonus/
Additional
SumI nsured
ofe ach
individual
policy

Table Row: 20 L ac | 10 L ac |  | 10 Lac | 5 Lac

Table Row: Annual S um
Insured | Accumulated
Cumulative
bonus/
Additional
SumI nsured
(after5 c laim
freey ears) | Annual Sum
Insured
reduced to
` 10 Lacs | Revised
Annual Sum
Insured | Revised
Accumulated
Cumulative
bonus/
Additional
SumI nsured

Table Row: 20 L ac | 10 L ac |  | 10 Lac | 5 Lac

Golden Shield
15. Sub-limits applicable
The expenses payable during the entire policy period for treatment of the following diseases/ conditions (either as a day care or
as an in-patient exceeding 24hrs of admission in the hospital) shall be maximum up to the amount mentioned in the table below;
Annual Sum Insured
Procedures/Medical Conditions/Ailments/Diseases
3L/4L/5L 10L/15L/20L >20L
Treatment of cataract Up to ` 25,000/ eye Up to ` 50,000/ eye Up to ` 75,000/ eye
Treatment of each and every ailment/procedure mentioned below
Treatment of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disorders
Treatment/surgeries for cancer(including chemo/radio/oral)
` 2,00,000 ` 3,50,000 ` 5,00,000
Treatment of other renal complications and disorders
Treatment for breakage of long bones/Joint replacements
Robotic surgeries for any ailment/condition/disease ` 1,00,000 ` 1,75,000 ` 2,50,000
Sub-limits will include the expenses incurred on pre hospitalisation and post hospitalisation expenses
16. Enhanced Annual Sum insured for Road Traffic Accidents • The Network Provider /Health Service Provider shall be
assigned by Us post receiving Insured Person’s request
If the insured person meets with a Road Traffic Accident
to avail a health check-up under this Benefit.
resulting in in-patient hospitalization, then the Annual Sum
Insured shall be doubled subject to the following: • Utilisation of this preventive health check-up will not
impact the Annual Sum Insured or eligibility for
• It is declared and proven that the insured person was
additional sum insured /cumulative Bonus.
taking due safety precautions such as use of seat-belt/
helmet/ following road traffic signals and was either • Un-utilised health check-up package will not be carried
riding as pillion rider in a two wheeler or travelling in a forward to the next policy year and it will be the Insured
four wheeler at the time of accident as evidenced by Person’s choice and responsibility to utilise the same
Police record and Hospital record. with in the designated policy period. We shall not be
liable to provide any reminders or notifications for the
• The enhanced(doubled) Sum Insured shall be available
same.
only once during the policy period.
• In-case of long term policies (2 year or 3 years), the
• The enhanced (double) Sum Insured shall be available
preventive health check-up package for all the policy
only after exhaustion of the annual sum insured.
years shall be provided together in the first policy year
• The enhanced Sum Insured can be utilized only for that
itself. It shall be the responsibility of the Insured Person
particular hospitalization following the Road Traffic
to preserve the same and undergo the check-ups
Accident .
during the designated policy years.
• Reset benefit shall not trigger for claims under this
Please Note:
cover.
• We shall not hold any responsibility towards any loss
• This benefit shall not be applicable for day care
or damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion,
treatment.
advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors, omissions
• The unutilized balance of enhanced (doubled) sum and representations made by the Medical Practitioner/
insured for road traffic accidents cannot be carried Healthcare professional.
forward for the remaining policy period or for renewal.
• Choosing the services under this Benefit is purely upon
• Claims under this benefit will reduce the Cumulative the customer’s own discretion and at own risk.
bonus/ additional sum insured
• The Insured Person should seek assistance from a
17. Preventive health check-up health care professional when interpreting and
Insured Persons can avail a preventive health check-up as applying them to the Insured person’s individual
per our pre- defined package only at our network providers circumstances. If the Insured person has any concerns
or empanelled health service providers anytime during the about His/ her health, He/ She may consult His/ her
Policy period subject to the below conditions : general practitioner.
• This benefit can be availed only on cashless basis and 18. Incentives associated with Vaccination against
is limited to once a year per Insured Person. pneumococcal disease
We will provide an additional 2.5% discount on premium
• This benefit can be availed through our mobile
(fresh or renewal) for Insured Person(s) who have taken the
application or via utilisation of health check-up
Pneumococcal vaccine or its equivalent vaccine which
coupons provided with the policy kit
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 10 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Procedures/Medical Conditions/Ailments/Diseases | Annual Sum Insured |  | 

Table Row:  | 3L/4L/5L | 10L/15L/20L | >20L

Table Row: Treatment of cataract | Up to ` 25,000/ eye | Up to ` 50,000/ eye | Up to ` 75,000/ eye

Table Row: Treatment of each and every ailment/procedure mentioned below |  |  | 

Table Row: Treatment of cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disorders | ` 2,00,000 | ` 3,50,000 | ` 5,00,000

Table Row: Treatment/surgeries for cancer(including chemo/radio/oral) |  |  | 

Table Row: Treatment of other renal complications and disorders |  |  | 

Table Row: Treatment for breakage of long bones/Joint replacements |  |  | 

Table Row: Robotic surgeries for any ailment/condition/disease | ` 1,00,000 | ` 1,75,000 | ` 2,50,000

Golden Shield
helps prevent pneumococcal disease. All the members specialist or a general physician will have to be
covered under thepolicy should have be vaccinated in the borne by the Insured Person.
past one year (1 year) from policy start date to avail this
• We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in the
discount. i.e. if policy start date is 1st January 2022, all
information provided under this Benefit.
insured persons under the policy should have been
• Choosing the services under this Benefit is purely
vaccinated against Pneumococcal disease in the period
upon the customer’s own discretion and at own risk.
from 1st January 2021 to 31st December 2021. This
discount shall be provided lifetime as long as the insured • *The proposer should seek assistance from a
person continues to renew this policy. health care professional when interpreting and
applying them to the Insured person’s individual
Mandatory Extension:
circumstances. If the Insured person has any
19. Care Management Program
concerns about His/ her health, He/ She may
In consideration of payment of additional premium, the
consult His/ her general practitioner. We shall not
insured person can avail benefits of the Care Management
hold any responsibility towards any loss or
Program. The Care Management Program aims to provide
damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion,
solutions which will solve everyday challenges/issues
advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors,
faced by You, promote holistic wellbeing and empower You
omissions and representations made by the
to lead independent and enriching lives.
Medical Practitioner/ Healthcare professional.
Our Care management program focusses on providing You
2. Second E-opinion for Critical Illness
with assistance and support in case of any challenge but at
We shall arrange E-opinion on a cashless basis from
the same time equipping you for the future. Our endeavour
our empanelled Medical Practitioners in case the
is to promote longevity, productivity and incentivise You for
Insured Person is diagnosed with any of the below
your healthy behaviour which will enable dignified living.
listed critical Illnesses during the Policy Period, and at
The Insured Person shall have access to a host of benefits
his/her sole discretion chooses to avail an E-opinion
under the Care management program on downloading and
subject to the below mentioned conditions.
registering on our mobile application. This activity is to
• The E-opinion will be arranged on cashless basis
ensure adequate utilization of services offered and to
and the insured person will not have to bear any
redeem the wellbeing points awarded.
expenses on the same.
1. Tele Consultation(s)
• The E-opinion will be based only on the
We will arrange consultations and recommendations
information and documentation provided to Us
for routine health issues by a qualified Medical
(which will be shared with the Medical
Practitioner or health care professional. For the
Practitioner) and it should not be construed to
purpose of this benefit Telephonic/Virtual consultation
constitute medical advice and/or substitute the
shall mean consultation provided by a qualified
Insured Person's visit/ consultation to an
Medical Practitioner or Health care professional
independent Medical Practitioner/Healthcare
through various mode of communication like audio,
professional.
video, online portal, chat or mobile application. The
• This E-opinion can be availed only once during the
services provided under this Benefit will be made
Policy Period for the same illness.
available subject to the terms and conditions, and in
the manner prescribed below: • Appointments to avail this E-opinion may be
requested through Our Website or Our mobile
• The Medical Practitioner may suggest /
application or through calling Our call centre on
recommend / prescribe over the counter
Our toll free number.
medications based on the information provided, if
required on a case to case basis. However, the • The E-opinion provided under this Benefit shall be
services under this Benefit should not be construed limited to the listed critical Illnesses and will not be
to constitute medical advice and/or substitute the valid for any medico legal purposes.
Insured Person's visit/ consultation to an
• We do not assume any liability towards any loss or
independent Medical Practitioner/Healthcare
damage arising out of or in relation to any opinion,
professional*.
advice, prescription, actual or alleged errors,
• There shall be no maximum limit on the count of omissions and representations made by the
tele-consultations that can be availed by the Medical Practitioner.
Insured Person in a policy year.
List of Critical Illness for which Second E-opinion may be
• This service will be available 24 hours a day, and requested
365 days in a year.
Heart and vascular conditions
• We/Medical Practitioner/Healthcare professional
1. Myocardial Infarction
may refer the Insured Person to another specialist
2. Refractory heart failure
or a general physician (outside of our empanelled
network), if required and the charges for such 3. Cardiomyopathy
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 11 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
Lung Conditions 4. E-Counselling
4. End stage lung Failure We will offer e-counselling session(s) with a
5. Primary(Idiopathic) pulmonary Hypertension Psychologist via our mobile application for providing
assistance in dealing with issues such as but not
Liver conditions
limited to personal and lifestyle imbalance, anxiety,
6. End stage liver Failure depression, sleep disorders, stress and problems
Neuro/ spinal & psychiatric disease related to psychological/mental illness/ psychiatric and
psychosomatic disorders.
7. Multiple sclerosis with Persisting symptoms
Maximum of 12 sessions will be provided per insured
8. Motor neuron disease with Permanent symptoms
person per policy period.
9. Permanent paralysis of limbs
The e-counseling sessions shall be availed only
10. Stroke resulting in permanent symptoms
through virtual modes of chat via our mobile
11. Coma of specified severity application.
12. Alzheimer’s Disease before age of 50 years 5. Health Management Program
13. Parkinson’s disease before age of 50 years The Health Management Program has been designed
to ensure a regular monitoring of the Insured Person’s
14. Apallic syndrome
health and timely intervention and a concrete plan for
15. Benign brain tumour
corrective measures in case of any decline in the health
16. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) status of the Insured Person.
17. Major head trauma The Health Coach shall guide and motivate the Insured
Renal diseases Person to follow the customised Health management
program designed for them to achieve their health and
18. Kidney failure requiring regular dialysis
fitness goals.
19. Medullary cystic disease
As a part of the Health Management Program, the
Musculoskeletal diseases insured person can avail the following benefits
20. Muscular dystrophy a. Care Calls
21. Poliomyelitis All insured persons shall receive care calls to check
Bleeding disorders up on their well-being and safety by our health
coach who understand the issues surrounding
22. Aplastic Anaemia
senior individuals. The insured person(s) will be
Auto immune diseases
encouraged to express their concerns surrounding
23. Systemic Lupus Erythematous with renal involvement their well-being (if any) on these calls so that the
health coach can address them later.
24. Myasthenia gravis
b. Goal based incentives on outcome of Preventive
25. Scleroderma
health check-up
26. Good pastures syndrome with lung or renal
Monitoring of one’s health status remains an
involvement
important step towards becoming more self-
27. Blindness
aware of one’s medical / health conditions.
28. Deafness
The insured person shall be subjected to a mid-
29. Cancer of specified severity term assessment via a Wellbeing Risk Assessment
30. Third Degree Burns [WRA] which will include outcome of certain
laboratory tests and questionnaire based
31. Loss of speech
assessment covering aspects of lifestyle, current
32. Loss of limbs medical history & family history.
33. Loss of Independent Existence The assessment will be carried out using a
3. Diet and Nutrition e-consultation telephonic/ digital connect with the Health Coach.
We will offer You diet and nutrition e-consultation on a The health coach will encourage the insured
virtual platform via our mobile application to help you person to undergo certain laboratory tests (as
achieve your weight and health management goals. detailed in Table A) and we will incentivise the
Insured Person in case of favourable findings of the
Maximum of 12 sessions will be provided per insured
laboratory tests.
person per policy period.
The insured person will have to undergo the below
The e-consultation shall be availed only through virtual
mentioned laboratory tests as a part of the mid-
modes of chat via our mobile application.
term assessment from our empanelled diagnostic
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 12 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
centres and will be guided by the health coach for person 250 wellness points. Each yoga session/ meditation
the same. session must last 30 minutes or more and the maximum
wellness points that can be accrued under this task is 1500
In case the insured person is desirous of
per insured person per policy year.
undergoing laboratory tests at a diagnostic centre
of their choice which is not empanelled with us, the Please Note: The insured persons can join a virtual
insured person will have to bear the charges yoga/meditation class or visit an actual yoga/meditation
associated with the actual costs of the mid-term centre. The expenses associated with the class
assessment diagnostic tests/ visit charges / fees/membership fees/tutor or instructor fees etc. will
collection charges etc. have to be borne by the insured person. Proof of payment
of fees and certificate of completion of sessions will have
The insured person will also have to provide us
to be provided to us in order for insured person to earn the
with the laboratory reports of the below
wellness points.
mentioned medical tests/investigations conducted
Alternately, in case the Insured Person is keen to achieve
within the policy period for Us to award the
targeted steps instead of participation in yoga
wellness points.
sessions/meditation sessions, we will award 250 wellness
Table A
points per month provided the insured person takes 4000+
Medical Tests Favorable Findings that need
steps per day for atleast 15 days in a month. The maximum
findings improvement
wellness points that can be accrued by achieving targeted
Glycosylated < 6% >6 and up to7%
steps is 1500 per insured person per policy year.
Haemoglobin (HbA1c)
Our mobile application will have to be downloaded within
Low Density < 100 mg/dl >100 and < or
30 days of the policy start date to avail the benefit as the
Lipoprotein (LDL) = 190 mg/dl
average step count completed by an Insured person would
High Density > or = 40 mg/dl > 20 mg/dl and
Lipoprotein (HDL) <40 mg/dl be monitored on this mobile application.
Serum cholesterol < or = 200mg/dl >200 and < or Each wellness point will be valued at INR 0.20. Wellness
=300 mg/dl points so earned can be redeemed against any services
Serum Triglycerides <or = 150 mg/dl > 150 and < under discounts as mentioned in “discounts on services or
= 250mg/dl products” on our mobile application.
S. Creatinine < or = 1.3 mg/dl > 1.3 mg/dl Wellness points Maximum wellness Rupee Value
The insured person shall be awarded wellness points as per table accumulated points awarded per of Accumulated
B for each laboratory test mentioned below in case the findings of person per policy year wellness points
the laboratory test are favourable as detailed in Table A. Outcome of 1500 300
Table B Preventive health
Medical Tests Wellness points awarded in check-ups
case of favourable findings Participation in Yoga / 1500 300
Glycosylated Haemoglobin (HbA1c) 500 Meditation / Completion
of Targeted steps
Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) 200
Total 3000 600
High Density Lipoprotein (HDL) 200
7. Medical Vault
Serum cholesterol 200
Serum Triglycerides 200 The insured person can upload His/Her health records in
Serum Creatinine 200 our mobile application so as to protect them from loss or
Total 1500 theft. These health records can then be viewed as per need
The maximum wellness points that can be awarded under and convenience of the insured person.
this activity is restricted to 1500 wellness points per insured By availing this service, the Insured person agrees and has
person per policy year. no objection to the health records being maintained with Us
Each wellness point will be valued at INR 0.20. Wellness for internal use only.
points so earned can be redeemed against deals and
8. Health Assistance (HAT)
discounts on purchase of medicines from our empanelled
HAT shall assist the Insured Person in understanding their
pharmacies or undergoing recommended diagnostic tests
health condition better by providing answers to any queries
from our empanelled diagnostic centres etc. as listed on our
related to health service providers
mobile application.
6. Participation in Yoga/Meditation Sessions/ Completion of The services provided under this shall include:
Targeted Steps • Identifying a Physician/ Specialist
The Insured Person can earn wellness points by • Availability of hospital beds/COVID hubs etc.
participating in yoga sessions or meditation sessions
• Providing guidance on engaging attendants or nurses
aimed at maintaining physical and mental Wellness.
Participation and successful completion of 10 yoga/ • Facilitation with respect to arrangement of mobility
meditation sessions in a month will award the insured aids, daily living aids, medical equipment etc.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 13 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Medical Tests | Favorable
findings | Findings that need
improvement

Table Row: Glycosylated
Haemoglobin (HbA1c) | < 6% | >6 and up to7%

Table Row: Low Density
Lipoprotein (LDL) | < 100 mg/dl | >100 and < or
= 190 mg/dl

Table Row: High Density
Lipoprotein (HDL) | > or = 40 mg/dl | > 20 mg/dl and
<40 mg/dl

Table Row: Serum cholesterol | < or = 200mg/dl | >200 and < or
=300 mg/dl

Table Row: Serum Triglycerides | <or = 150 mg/dl | > 150 and <
= 250mg/dl

Table Row: S. Creatinine | < or = 1.3 mg/dl | > 1.3 mg/dl

Table Row: Wellness points
accumulated | Maximum wellness
points awarded per
person per policy year | Rupee Value
of Accumulated
wellness points

Table Row: Outcome of
Preventive health
check-ups | 1500 | 300

Table Row: Participation in Yoga /
Meditation / Completion
of Targeted steps | 1500 | 300

Table Row: Total | 3000 | 600

Table Row: Medical Tests | Wellness points awarded in
case of favourable findings

Table Row: Glycosylated Haemoglobin (HbA1c) | 500

Table Row: Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) | 200

Table Row: High Density Lipoprotein (HDL) | 200

Table Row: Serum cholesterol | 200

Table Row: Serum Triglycerides | 200

Table Row: Serum Creatinine | 200

Table Row: Total | 1500

Golden Shield
• Scheduling an appointment with any Medical • The ambulance service is availed within the same
Practitioner empanelled with Us city
• Scheduling appointments for a second opinion • This is an assistance service and the expenses for
the same will have to be borne by the insured
• Providing suitable options with respect to Hospitals as
person or can be claimed under domestic road
well as providing assistance in Cashless facility,
ambulance cover( if inpatient treatment claim is
wherever applicable.
found to be admissible)
• Scheduling appointments from diagnostic labs
Process to avail Ambulance Assistance:
empanelled with us.
a) On calling Our helpline number provided below, Our
• Providing information, assistance and facilitation on
trained customer service executive (CSE) will ask the
door step delivery of medicines
Insured person relevant questions to assess the
• Providing preventive information on ailments situation.
• Providing guidance on post Hospitalization care, such b) The call may be redirected to a qualified Medical
as Physiotherapy/ Nursing at home. Practitioner in order to evaluate the requirement for an
ambulance with Advanced Life Support based on the
Please note that services provided under this Benefit are
Insured Person’s condition.
solely for assistance, and should not be construed to be a
c) The below mentioned details are to be made available
substitute for a visit/ consultation to an independent
for availing the services:
Medical Practitioner. Our role is limited to that of facilitation
and Health Assistance services will not include the charges 1. UHID of Insured Person, as provided on the Health
for any independent Medical Practitioner/nutritionist/ Card.
charges incurred on diagnostics/ consulted on HAT’s 2. Contact number of the Insured Person
recommendation, and such charges are to be borne by the 3. Location of Insured Person
Insured Person.
How to Call an Ambulance? (Via Call)
For all facilitation services provided under this cover, our
role shall be limited to assistance only and the charges and
An IVRS will ask
Call will be
expenses associated with the actual service shall have to you to select option
Call 18001028136 answered by an
1or 2 depending on
be borne by the insured person. to reach the CSE & details like
requirement.
Emergency name, UHID, nature
This service is available on our mobile application or by Response Centre Dial 1 for Medical of emergency will
Ambulance
calling on 040-66274205 (please note that this number is be asked
Services
subject to change) from 8am to 8pm from Monday to
Saturday except public holidays.
By availing this service, the Insured person agrees and has
Patient will be
no objection to the health records being maintained with Us Doctor may Emergency
taken to the nearest
accompany patient Ambulance
for internal use only. hospital as per the
in the ambulance Transport
predefined hospital
While deciding to obtain the above services, the Insured if required network chart will arrive
person(s) expressly notes and agrees that it is entirely for
them to decide whether to obtain these services and also to
decide the use (if any) to which these services are to be put
for.
Ambulance
9. Ambulance Assistance pick up & drop
Click on emergency CSE does
the patient to
We will facilitate ground medical transportation by a icon & place request hospital / health feedback Call
facility
Service provider to transport the Insured Person to the
nearest Hospital or any clinic or nursing home for medically
necessary treatment subject to availability of services in
that particular city/ location. Kindly visit our website for The medical team
updated list of cities/ locations where the services are Customer service provides with
executive connects continued
provided. with medical team necessary
assistance on call
1. The services under this Benefit are subject to the
following conditions:
• The medical transportation is for a life threatening
health condition of the Insured Person which Doctor understand CSE dispatch the
situation & advices ambulance to
requires immediate and rapid transportation to the on emergency Care desired location &
Hospital; as certified in writing by the Medical / Selection of provide necessary
ambulance details
practitioner
• The Insured Person is in India and the treatment is
in India only;
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 14 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
10. Discounts on services / products advice or information obtained by way of the wellness
program or any actions chosen by the Insured Person
We shall only facilitate the Insured Person in availing
on the basis of such advice or information.
discounts on services/ products including but not limited to
investigations/ diagnostic tests/ laboratory tests / health • The care management program offered is subject to
supplements/ medical equipment/ homecare services / revisions based on the insurance regulatory
virtual health & wellness sessions/ AYUSH products / framework from time to time.
Fitness & wellness related activities & products etc. at our
Optional Covers
empanelled diagnostic centres, drugs / medicines ordered
1. Claim Protector
from pharmacies etc. offered by our network providers/
health service providers. These discounts can be viewed on In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us,
our mobile application and one can redeem the wellness the insured person can avail the benefit as mentioned
points earned from Care Management Program (either under claim protector. If a claim has been accepted under
through favourable findings on health check-up or the inpatient hospitalization cover, then the items which
participation in Yoga/ meditations sessions/ achieving are not payable under the claim as per the List of Excluded
targeted steps per month) for availing discounts as per items released by IRDAI that is related to the particular
product terms and conditions and subject to availability. claim will become payable. The maximum claim pay-out
Terms and Conditions for Care Management Program under this benefit shall be limited to Annual Sum Insured
under your policy.
• There shall be no minimum wellness points limit for
redemption against health related deals and discounts Base Co-payment as opted by the Insured Person in the
offered on our mobile application. policy shall be applicable for this cover
• The Insured Person(s) can choose to carry forward the 2. Modification of Base Co-payment
wellness points for 3 years, in case they do not wish to
In consideration of payment of additional premium to Us,
redeem the same provided the policy is continuously
The insured person will have the option to reduce his base
renewed without any break. The wellness points so
co-payment from 50% to 40% or 30% or 20% and He/She
accrued shall have to be redeemed at the end of the 3rd
shall be liable to pay the percentage (%) of admissible claim
Policy year.
amount of each and every claim.
• The Insured Person shall notify Us and submit the
Base Co-payment once chosen cannot be changed mid-
relevant documents, reports, receipts as and when
term. Modification of co-payment may happen only
required by us within 60 days of undertaking any
during renewal subject to underwriting. In case, base co-
activity for us to reward appropriate wellness points.
payment is reduced during renewal, fresh waiting periods
• In case of expiry of policy and the policy not being shall be applicable on the modified portion of base co-
renewed, the accrued wellness points may be carried payment.
forward for a period not exceeding three months.
3. Voluntary Deductible
• There shall not be any cash reimbursement or
In case the Insured person has opted for a voluntary
redemption available against the wellness points
deductible, as specified in the Policy Schedule, the
accumulated by an Insured Person.
Deductible will be applicable on aggregate basis for all
• We or Our Health Service Providers or Our Network Hospitalization expenses during the Policy Year before it
Providers do not warrant the validity, accuracy, becomes payable by Us, subject to terms, conditions and
completeness, safety, quality, or applicability of the exclusions of the Policy. The voluntary deductible option
content or anything said or written or any suggestions available will be 20% of Annual Sum Insured opted by
provided in the course of providing the wellbeing You.
services.
i. In case voluntary deductible has been opted for, base
• We do not accept any liability towards quality of the co-payment shall not be chosen. Zone based co-
services made available by our network providers/ payment shall be applicable in case medically
health service providers and are not liable for any necessary treatment (Except medically necessary
defects or deficiencies on their part. treatment for road traffic accidents) has been taken in
• Availability of all Services under the care management a zone higher (Zone A being the highest followed by
program is subject to availability of Health Service Zone B and then Zone C) than the zone for which
provider at the requested location. premium has been paid on issuance of the policy.
• We, Our group entities, or affiliates, their respective ii. The deductible will apply on individual basis in case of
directors, officers, employees, agents, vendors, shall individual policy and on floater basis in case of floater
not be responsible for or liable for, any actions, claims, policy.
demands, losses, damages, costs, charges and iii. Deductible once chosen cannot be changed mid-term.
expenses which an Insured Person may claim to have Modification of deductible may happen only during
suffered, sustained or incurred, as a result of any renewal subject to underwriting.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 15 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
4. Care management Plus Program These services shall be provided through our
Empanelled Health Service Provider subject to
In consideration of payment of additional premium, Insured
availability at the time of appointment.
Person can avail the benefits associated with care
management Plus Program as detailed below This benefit shall also include e-consultation given by a
General Medical Practitioner or Specialist or Super
1. Health Care Professional
Specialist Medical Practitioner or AYUSH medical
All insured persons shall be assigned a dedicated
practitioner through a virtual mode of communication
Health Care Professional who will act as a first point of
such as but not limited to chat, email, video, online
contact for any service need. The Health Care
portal, or mobile application.
professional will be a certified nutritionist who will
Physiotherapy sessions shall be excluded from the
assist the Insured person(s) with a personalised diet
scope of this benefit.
depending on their health concerns. The Health Care
Professional shall encourage and promote optimal Counselling availed for psychiatric ailments or mental
health and assist on matters pertaining to fitness, diet health issues shall be excluded from the scope of this
and nutrition and wellbeing concerns faced by the benefit but it shall be covered in E-Counseling (section
insured persons. He/She will encourage two way d. Base Cover. 18.4) as per the section d. Benefits
communication, provide reminders on healthy habits covered under the policy.
and reassure the insured person in times of need.
4. Routine Diagnostics and Minor Procedure cover
The health care professional will also play a significant
We shall cover medical expenses incurred for
role in being the primary point of contact to the Insured
outpatient diagnostic tests recommended by Medical
Person. The Health Care professional will
Practitioner under our cashless network available in
• On-board the Insured Person on to our mobile the mobile application in relation to any Illness
application contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured Person
• Educate the Insured Person on the pertinent during the Policy Period and for listed minor procedures
features of our mobile application such as but not undergone at a general practitioner or specialist /
limited to availing Tele-consultations, utilising the super-specialist medical practitioner by the Insured
preventive health check-up, conducting the mid- Person during the Policy period maximum up ` 2,000.
term assessment, educating about health These services shall be provided through our
assistance services, redemption of wellness points Empanelled Health Service Provider subject to
etc. availability at the time of appointment. The diagnostic
• Give care calls to the Insured Person to understand tests shall include but will not be limited to
insured person’s issues surrounding fitness, diet & histopathology, biochemistry, hematology,
nutrition and wellbeing issues if any and propose immunology, microbiology, serology, pathology,
solutions for the same radiology, ultrasound and TMT. Genetic studies shall be
excluded from the scope of this cover.
2. Update to family members-
We may even arrange for diagnostic tests to be carried
As a part of the enhanced wellness features, your
out at the location of the Insured Person provided such
family members will be regularly updated about your
location is within the geographical reach of the Health
health and adherence to prescribed diet(as prescribed
Service Provider on the date of the request. This service
under the diet and nutrition e-consultation benefit
shall be subject to availability of Our empanelled
under Care management program) via messaging
Health Service provider.
platform(s) so that they can motivate and encourage
and participate in your efforts to achieve your List of Minor Procedures covered under this benefit #
healthcare goals.
Sr. No. Procedure
The above update shall be provided only on Your
1 Drainage of abscess
consent and after You provide us with contact details of
2 Injection including Intramuscular
family member who wishes to receive timely updates
(Per Injection cost)
about your health and diet regime.
3 Intravenous injection(IV)
3. Out-patient consultations
4 Sprain Management
We shall cover the Medical Expenses incurred during
(Joint movement/ exercise)
the Policy period for out-patient consultations from a
General Medical Practitioner or Specialist Medical 5 Otoscopic examination
Practitioner or Super Specialist Medical practitioner or (Magnifying otoscopy)
AYUSH medical practitioner in relation to any Illness
6 Nasal packing for control of haemorrhage
contracted or Injury suffered by the Insured Person
7 Nebulizer therapy
during the Policy period subject to the overall
maximum number of 4 consultations in a Policy Year. 8 Removal of foreign body
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 16 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Sr. No. | Procedure

Table Row: 1 | Drainage of abscess

Table Row: 2 | Injection including Intramuscular
(Per Injection cost)

Table Row: 3 | Intravenous injection(IV)

Table Row: 4 | Sprain Management
(Joint movement/ exercise)

Table Row: 5 | Otoscopic examination
(Magnifying otoscopy)

Table Row: 6 | Nasal packing for control of haemorrhage

Table Row: 7 | Nebulizer therapy

Table Row: 8 | Removal of foreign body

Golden Shield
List of Minor Procedures covered under this benefit # i. Standard exclusions (Exclusions for which
standard wordings are specified by IRDAI)
Sr. No. Procedure
1. Code- Excl01: Pre-Existing Diseases
9 Suturing (Staple under LA)
a. Expenses related to the treatment of a
10 Removal of suture
pre-existing Disease (PED) and its direct
11 Stabilization of joint
complications shall be excluded until the
12 Syringing ear to remove wax expiry of 24 months of continuous
coverage after the date of inception of the
13 Application or removal of plaster cast
first policy with insurer.
14 Laryngoscopy
b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the
15 Minor wound management
exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent
#this includes only the cost of administration. The of sum insured increase.
actual cost of consumables shall be covered under the
c. If the Insured Person is continuously
pharmacy cover. However, the said cost will have to be
covered without any break as defined
borne by the insured person in case the annual sum
under the portability norms of the extant
insured under the pharmacy cover has been exhausted
IRDAI (Health Insurance) Regulations,
or is out of scope of the Pharmacy cover or in case the
then waiting period for the same would be
consumable is a non-payable item.
reduced to the extent of prior coverage.
5. Pharmacy cover
d. Coverage under the policy after the expiry
We shall cover medical expenses incurred on purchase of 24 months for any pre-existing disease
of medicines, drugs, and medical consumables, as is subject to the same being declared at
prescribed by a Medical Practitioner under our the time of application and accepted by
cashless network available in the mobile application Insurer.
for any Illness contracted or Injury suffered by the
2. Code- Excl02: Specified disease/procedure
Insured Person during the Policy Period, maximum up
waiting period
to ` 2,000 through our Empanelled Health Service
a. Expenses related to the treatment of the
Provider subject to availability on the date of the
listed Conditions, surgeries/treatments
request.
shall be excluded until the expiry of 24
Health supplements, Nutraceuticals, foods for special
months of continuous coverage after the
dietary use, foods for special medical purpose, foods
date of inception of the first policy with us.
with added probiotics and/or foods with added
This exclusion shall not be applicable for
prebiotics, vaccinations, vitamins, tonics or other
claims arising due to an accident.
related products are excluded from the scope of this
b. In case of enhancement of sum insured the
cover.
exclusion shall apply afresh to the extent
6. Nursing at Home
of sum insured increase.
We shall cover the expenses incurred by You, up to
c. If any of the specified disease/procedure
` 2,000 for each day up to a maximum of 15 days post
falls under the waiting period specified for
Hospitalization for the medical services of a Qualified
pre-Existing diseases, then the longer of
Nurse at Your residence, provided that the nurse is
the two waiting periods shall apply.
employed in a Hospital and the engagement of such
d. The waiting period for listed conditions
Qualified Nurse is certified as necessary by a Medical
shall apply even if contracted after the
Practitioner and related directly to any Illness or Injury,
policy or declared and accepted without a
covered under the Policy. The payment under this cover
specific exclusion.
is subject to admissibility of Your In-patient treatment
Claim under the Policy. e. If the Insured Person is continuously
covered without any break as defined
d. Exclusions
under the applicable norms on portability
We will not be liable for any Voluntary Deductible
stipulated by IRDAI, then waiting period
amount, if applicable and as specifically defined in the
for the same would be reduced to the
Policy Schedule under the Policy.
extent of prior coverage.
We will not be liable to make any payment under this
Policy in connection with or in respect of any expenses
whatsoever incurred in connection with or in respect of:
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 17 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Sr. No. | Procedure

Table Row: 9 | Suturing (Staple under LA)

Table Row: 10 | Removal of suture

Table Row: 11 | Stabilization of joint

Table Row: 12 | Syringing ear to remove wax

Table Row: 13 | Application or removal of plaster cast

Table Row: 14 | Laryngoscopy

Table Row: 15 | Minor wound management

Golden Shield
f. List of specific Illness and Surgical Procedures as mention below:
Sr. Organ /Organ Illness/ diagnosis Surgeries/ Procedures (irrespective of any
No. System (irrespective of treatments medical or surgical) illness or diagnosis other than cancers)
1 ENT Deviated Nasal Septum Septoplasty
CSOM-Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media Mastoidectomy
Tympanoplasty, Myringotomy &
Myringoplasty
Any treatment for conditions related to
tonsils, adenoids, sinuses, Turbinates/
concha
2 Gynaecological Fibroids (fibromyoma) Dilatation and curettage (D&C)
Endometriosis, Cervicitis Myomectomy
Uterine Prolapse Hysterectomy (unless due to malignancy
Dysfunctional uterine bleeding
Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS)
3 Orthopaedic Arthritis Surgeries for joint replacements
Gout and Rheumatism Repairs/ reconstruction of ligaments/
meniscus/ tendons
Spinal and Vertebral Disorders including diagnosis as low back ache
Spinal & Vertebral Surgeries
Arthroscopy
4 Gastrointestinal Stones in gall bladder & Biliary System, cholecystitis, acalculous Cholecystectomy, Procedures for biliary
cholecystitis stones
Fissure/fistula in anus, hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus Endoscopy
Esophageal Varices & Gastric Varices Procedures for Esophageal Varices &
Gastric Varices
All types Hernia
Endoscopy
Gastrointestinal ulcers including Gastritis & Duodenitis/ Erosions
of gastrointestinal tract
All forms of Liver cirrhosis
5 Uro-genital Stones in Urinary system Surgeries and procedures related to
Stones in Urinary system
Benign Hyperplasia of prostate Prostatic Surgeries
Chronic Renal Failure or end stage Renal Failure or chronic Dialysis but not limited to haemodialysis &
kidney disease including dialysis peritoneal dialysis
Hydrocele, varicocele/ rectocele/ Spermatocele
6 Eye Cataract
Retinal detachment
Glaucoma
Usage of intra vitreal injections including but not limited to avastin
& lucentis
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 18 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Sr.
No. | Organ /Organ
System | Illness/ diagnosis
(irrespective of treatments medical or surgical) | Surgeries/ Procedures (irrespective of any
illness or diagnosis other than cancers)

Table Row: 1 | ENT | Deviated Nasal Septum | Septoplasty

Table Row:  |  | CSOM-Chronic Suppurative Otitis Media | Mastoidectomy

Table Row:  |  |  | Tympanoplasty, Myringotomy &
Myringoplasty

Table Row:  |  |  | Any treatment for conditions related to
tonsils, adenoids, sinuses, Turbinates/
concha

Table Row: 2 | Gynaecological | Fibroids (fibromyoma) | Dilatation and curettage (D&C)

Table Row:  |  | Endometriosis, Cervicitis | Myomectomy

Table Row:  |  | Uterine Prolapse | Hysterectomy (unless due to malignancy

Table Row:  |  | Dysfunctional uterine bleeding | 

Table Row:  |  | Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) | 

Table Row: 3 | Orthopaedic | Arthritis | Surgeries for joint replacements

Table Row:  |  | Gout and Rheumatism | Repairs/ reconstruction of ligaments/
meniscus/ tendons

Table Row:  |  | Spinal and Vertebral Disorders including diagnosis as low back ache | 

Table Row:  |  |  | Spinal & Vertebral Surgeries

Table Row:  |  | Arthroscopy | 

Table Row: 4 | Gastrointestinal | Stones in gall bladder & Biliary System, cholecystitis, acalculous
cholecystitis | Cholecystectomy, Procedures for biliary
stones

Table Row:  |  | Fissure/fistula in anus, hemorrhoids, pilonidal sinus | Endoscopy

Table Row:  |  | Esophageal Varices & Gastric Varices | Procedures for Esophageal Varices &
Gastric Varices

Table Row:  |  | All types Hernia | 

Table Row:  |  |  | Endoscopy

Table Row:  |  | Gastrointestinal ulcers including Gastritis & Duodenitis/ Erosions
of gastrointestinal tract | 

Table Row:  |  | All forms of Liver cirrhosis | 

Table Row: 5 | Uro-genital | Stones in Urinary system
Benign Hyperplasia of prostate | Surgeries and procedures related to
Stones in Urinary system
Prostatic Surgeries

Table Row:  |  | Chronic Renal Failure or end stage Renal Failure or chronic
kidney disease including dialysis | Dialysis but not limited to haemodialysis &
peritoneal dialysis

Table Row:  |  | Hydrocele, varicocele/ rectocele/ Spermatocele | 

Table Row: 6 | Eye | Cataract | 

Table Row:  |  | Retinal detachment | 

Table Row:  |  | Glaucoma | 

Table Row:  |  | Usage of intra vitreal injections including but not limited to avastin
& lucentis | 

Golden Shield
f. List of specific Illness and Surgical Procedures as mention below: (Contd.)
Sr. Organ /Organ Illness/ diagnosis Surgeries/ Procedures (irrespective of any
No. System (irrespective of treatments medical or surgical) illness or diagnosis other than cancers)
7 Other General All internal/ external tumors, cysts, nodules, polyps, sinus, fistula
conditions
(Applicable to Varicose veins & Varicose ulcers
all organ
systems/ Parkinson’s disease/Alzheimer’s disease
organs/
disciplines
whether or not
described
above)
3. a. Expenses related to the treatment of the below Expenses related to any admission primarily for
mentioned illness within 90 days from the first policy enforced bed rest and not for receiving treatment. This
commencement date shall be excluded unless they also includes:
are pre-existing and disclosed at the time of
a. Custodial care either at home or in a nursing facility
underwriting
for personal care such as help with activities of
i. Hypertension daily living such as bathing, dressing, moving
around either by skilled nurses or assistant or non-
ii. Diabetes
skilled persons.
iii. Cardiac Conditions
b. Any services for people who are terminally ill to
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured
address physical, social, emotional and spiritual
Person has continuous coverage for more than twelve
needs
months.
iii. Code- Excl06: Obesity/ Weight Control
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable
Expenses related to the surgical treatment of
to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting
obesity that does not fulfil all the below conditions:
higher sum insured subsequently.
1. Surgery to be conducted is upon the advice of
4. Code- Excl03: 30-day waiting period
the Doctor
a. Expenses related to the treatment of any illness within
2. The surgery/Procedure conducted should be
30 days from the first policy commencement date shall
supported by clinical protocols
be excluded except claims arising due to an accident,
provided the same are covered. 3. The member has to be 18 years of age or older
and
b. This exclusion shall not, however, apply if the Insured
Person has Continuous Coverage for more than twelve 4. Body Mass Index (BMI);
months.
a. greater than or equal to 40 or
c. The within referred waiting period is made applicable
b. greater than or equal to 35 in conjunction
to the enhanced sum insured in the event of granting
with any of the following severe co-
higher sum insured subsequently
morbidities following failure of less
Unless covered by way of an appropriate extensions / invasive methods of weight loss:
optional covers, We shall not be liable to make any
i. Obesity-related cardiomyopathy
payment under this Policy in connection with or in
ii. Coronary heart disease
respect of
iii. Severe Sleep Apnea
5. Permanent Exclusions
iv. Uncontrolled Type2 Diabetes
i. Code- Excl04: Investigation & Evaluation
iv. Code- Excl07: Change of Gender treatments
a. Expenses related to any admission primarily for
diagnostics and evaluation purposes only are Expenses related to any treatment, including surgical
excluded. management, to change characteristics of the body to
those of the opposite sex.
b. Any diagnostic expenses which are not related or
not incidental to the current diagnosis and v. Code- Excl08: Cosmetic or plastic Surgery
treatment are excluded. Expenses for cosmetic or plastic surgery or any
ii. Code - Excl05: Exclusion Name: Rest Cure, treatment to change appearance unless for
rehabilitation and respite care- reconstruction following an Accident, Burn(s) or
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 19 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Sr.
No. | Organ /Organ
System | Illness/ diagnosis
(irrespective of treatments medical or surgical) | Surgeries/ Procedures (irrespective of any
illness or diagnosis other than cancers)

Table Row: 7 | Other General
conditions
(Applicable to
all organ
systems/
organs/
disciplines
whether or not
described
above) | All internal/ external tumors, cysts, nodules, polyps, sinus, fistula | 

Table Row:  |  | Varicose veins & Varicose ulcers | 

Table Row:  |  | Parkinson’s disease/Alzheimer’s disease | 

Golden Shield
Cancer or as part of medically necessary treatment to xv. Code- Excl18: Maternity: Medical treatment expenses
remove a direct and immediate health risk to the traceable to childbirth (including complicated
insured. For this to be considered a medical necessity, it deliveries and caesarean sections incurred during
must be certified by the attending Medical Practitioner. hospitalization) except ectopic pregnancy. Expenses
vi. Code- Excl09: Hazardous or Adventure sports towards miscarriage (unless due to an accident) and
lawful medical termination of pregnancy during the
Expenses related to any treatment necessitated due to
policy period
participation as a professional in hazardous or
adventure sports, including but not limited to, para- ii. Specific exclusions (Exclusions other than those
jumping, rock climbing, mountaineering, rafting, motor mentioned under e.i. above)
racing, horse racing or scuba diving, hand gliding, sky 6. Any ailment/ illness/ injury/ condition or treatment
diving, deep-sea diving. or service that is specifically excluded in the Policy
vii. Code- Excl10: Breach of law Schedule under Special Conditions
Expenses for treatment directly arising from or 7. Any expenses incurred on prosthesis, corrective
consequent upon any Insured Person committing or devices, external durable medical equipment of
attempting to commit a breach of law with criminal any kind, instruments used in treatment of sleep
intent. apnoea syndrome or cost of cochlear implant(s)
viii. Code- Excl11: Excluded Providers unless necessitated by an Accident or required
intra-operatively.
Expenses incurred towards treatment in any hospital or
by any Medical Practitioner or any other provider 8. Multifocal Lens and ambulatory devices such as
specifically excluded by the Insurer and disclosed in its walkers, crutches, splints, stockings of any kind
website / notified to the policyholders are not admissible. and also any medical equipment which is
However, in case of life threatening situations or subsequently used at home.
following an accident, expenses up to the stage of
9. Expenses incurred on dental treatment unless
stabilization are payable but not the complete claim
necessitated due to an Accident
ix. Code- Excl12: Treatment for, Alcoholism, drug or
10. Personal comfort, cosmetics, convenience and
substance abuse or any addictive condition and
hygiene related items and services
consequences thereof.
11. Acupressure, acupuncture, magnetic and other
x. Code- Excl13: Treatments received in heath
therapies
hydros, nature cure clinics, spas or similar
establishments or private beds registered as a nursing 12. Circumcision unless necessary for treatment of an
home attached to such establishments or where Illness or necessitated due to an Accident.
admission is arranged wholly or partly for domestic 13. Expenses for venereal disease or any sexually
reasons. transmitted disease (except HIV/AIDS)
xi. Code- Excl14: Dietary supplements and substances that 14. Any Treatment or medical services taken outside
can be purchased without prescription, including but the geographical boundaries of India.
not limited to Vitamins, minerals and organic
15. Any expenses incurred on out-patient (OPD)
substances unless prescribed by a medical practitioner
treatment. (This exclusion shall not be applicable
as part of hospitalization claim or day care procedure.
in case care management plus program has been
xii. Code- Excl15: Expenses related to the treatment for
opted for by payment of additional premium)
correction of eye sight due to refractive error less than
16. Intentional self-injury (whether arising from an
7.5 dioptres
attempt to commit suicide or otherwise)
xiii. Code- Excl16: Unproven Treatments: Expenses
17. Any injury or illness caused by or arising from or
related to any unproven treatment, services and
attributed to war, invasion, acts of foreign
supplies for or in connection with any treatment.
enemies, hostilities (whether war be declared or
Unproven treatments are treatments, procedures or
not), civil war, commotion, unrest, rebellion,
supplies that lack significant medical documentation
revolution, military or usurped power or
to support their effectiveness.
confiscation or nationalisation or requisition of or
xiv. Code- Excl17: Sterility and Infertility: Expenses related
damage by or under the order of any government
to sterility and infertility. This includes:
or public local authority
i. Any type of contraception, sterilization
18. Any Illness or Injury caused by or contributed to by
ii. Assisted Reproduction services including artificial
nuclear weapons/materials or contributed to by or
insemination and advanced reproductive
arising from ionising radiation or contamination by
technologies such as IVF, ZIFT, GIFT, ICSI
radioactivity by any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear
iii. Gestational Surrogacy waste or from the combustion of nuclear fuel
iv. Reversal of sterilization
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 20 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
19. Treatment for any condition / illness which requires (Explanation: "Bank rate" shall mean the rate
hormone replacement therapy. fixed by the Reserve Bank of lndia (RBl) at the
beginning of the financial year in which claim
20. Artificial life maintenance for the Insured Person
has fallen due)
who has been declared brain dead or in vegetative
state as demonstrated by: 4. Complete Discharge
a. Deep coma and unresponsiveness to all forms Any payment to the policyholder, insured person or
of stimulation; or his/ her nominees or his/ her legal representative or
assignee or to the hospital as the case may be, for
b. Absent pupillary light reaction; or
any benefit under the Policy shall be a valid
c. Absent oculo-vestibular and corneal reflexes;
discharge towards payment of claim by the
or
Company to the extent of that amount for the
d. Complete apnea. particular claim
e. General Terms and Clauses 5. Multiple Policies
i. Standard General Terms and Clauses (General Terms i. In case of multiple policies taken by an insured
and clauses whose wordings are specified by IRDAI) person during a period from one or more
1. Disclosure of Information insurers to indemnify treatment costs, the
insured person shall have the right to require a
The Policy shall be void and all premium paid
settlement of his/her claim in terms of any of
thereon shall be forfeited to the Company in the
his/her policies. In all such cases the insurer
event of misrepresentation, mis-description or
chosen by the insured person shall be obliged
non-disclosure of any material fact by the
to settle the claim as long as the claim is within
policyholder
the limits of and according to the terms of the
(Explanation: "Material facts" for the purpose of chosen policy.
this policy shall mean all relevant information
ii. Insured Person having multiple policies shall
sought by the company in the proposal form and
also have the right to prefer claims under this
other connected documents to enable it to take
policy for the amounts disallowed under any
informed decision in the context of underwriting
other policy / policies, even if the sum insured is
the risk)
not exhausted. Then the Insurer shall
2. Condition Precedent to Admission of Liability independently settle the claim subject to the
The terms and conditions of the policy must be fulfilled terms and conditions of this policy.
by the insured person for the Company to make any iii. If the amount to be claimed exceeds the sum
payment for claim(s) arising under the policy. insured under a single policy, the insured
3. Claim Settlement (provision for Penal lnterest) person shall have the right to choose insurers
from whom he/she wants to claim the balance
I. The Company shall settle or reject a claim, as
amount.
the case may be, within 30 days from the date
of receipt of last necessary document. iv. Where an insured person has policies from
more than one insurer to cover the same risk
II. ln the case of delay in the payment of a claim,
on indemnity basis, the insured person shall
the Company shall be liable to pay interest to
only be indemnified the treatment costs in
the policyholder from the date of receipt of last
accordance with the terms and conditions of
necessary document to the date of payment of
the chosen policy.
claim at a rate 2% above the bank rate.
6. Fraud
III. However, where the circumstances of a claim
warrant an investigation in the opinion of the If any claim made by the insured person, is in any
Company, it shall initiate and complete such respect fraudulent, or if any false statement, or
investigation at the earliest, in any case not declaration is made or used in support thereof, or if
later than 30 days from the date of receipt of any fraudulent means or devices are used by the
last necessary document. ln such cases, the insured person or anyone acting on his/her behalf to
Company shall settle or reject the claim within obtain any benefit under this policy, all benefits under
45 days from the date of receipt of last this policy and the premium paid shall be forfeited.
necessary document. Any amount already paid against claims made
IV. ln case of delay beyond stipulated 45 days, the under this policy but which are found fraudulent
Company shall be liable to pay interest to the later shall be repaid by all recipient(s) /
policyholder at a rate 2% above the bank rate policyholder(s), who has made that particular
from the date of receipt of last necessary claim, who shall be jointly and severally liable for
document to the date of payment of claim. such repayment to the insurer.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 21 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
For the purpose of this clause, the expression 8. Migration:
"fraud" means any of the following acts committed
The insured person will have the option to migrate the
by the Insured Person or by his agent or the
policy to other health insurance products/plans offered
hospital/doctor/any other party acting on behalf of
by the company by applying for migration of the policy
the insured person, with intent to deceive the
at least 30 days before the policy renewal date as per
insurer or to induce the insurer to issue an
IRDAI guidelines on Migration. lf such person is
insurance Policy :-
presently covered and has been continuously covered
a) the suggestion, as a fact of that which is not without any lapses under any health insurance
true and which the Insured Person does not product/ plan offered by the company, the insured
believe to be true; person will get the accrued continuity benefits in
waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on migration.
b) the active concealment of a fact by the Insured
Person having knowledge or belief of the fact; For Detailed Guidelines on migration, kindly refer the link
https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelines_Layo
c) any other act fitted to deceive; and
ut.aspx?page=PageNo3987
d) any such act or omission as the law specially
9. Portability
declares to be fraudulent
The insured person will have the option to port the
The company shall not repudiate the claim and / or
policy to other insurers by applying to such insurer to
forfeit the policy benefits on the ground of fraud, if
port the entire policy along with all the members of the
the insured person / beneficiary can prove that the
family, if any, at least 45 days before, but not earlier
misstatement was true to the best of his
than 60 days from the policy renewal date as per IRDAI
knowledge and there was no deliberate intention
guidelines related to portability. lf such person is
to suppress the fact or that such mis-statement of
presently covered and has been continuously covered
or suppression of material fact are within the
without any lapses under any health insurance policy
knowledge of the insurer.
with an lndian General/Health insurer, the proposed
7. Cancellation insured person will get the accrued continuity benefits
a) The policyholder may cancel this Policy by giving in waiting periods as per IRDAI guidelines on
15 days' written notice, and in such an event, the portability.
Company shall refund premium for the unexpired For Detailed Guidelines on portability, kindly refer the link
Policy Period as detailed below. https://www.irdai.gov.in/ADMINCMS/cms/frmGuidelin
Cancellation Period Refund % Refund % Refund % es_Layout.aspx?page=PageNo3987
for 1 year for 2 years for 3 years
10. Renewal of Policy
tenure tenure tenure
policy policy policy The policy shall ordinarily be renewable except on
From 16 days to 1 month 75% 80% 80%
grounds of fraud, misrepresentation by the insured
From 1 month to 3 months 60% 70% 75%
person
From 3 months to 6 months 40% 60% 70%
From 6 months to 9 months 20% 50% 60% i. The Company shall endeavor to give notice for
From 9 months to 12 months 0% 40% 55% renewal. However, the Company is not under
From 12 months to 15 months - 30% 45% obligation to give any notice for renewal.
From 15 months to 18 months - 20% 40%
ii. Renewal shall not be denied on the ground that the
From 18 months to 21 months - 10% 35%
insured person had made a claim or claims in the
From 21 months to 24 months - 0% 25%
preceding policy years.
From 24 months to 27 months - - 20%
From 27 months to 30 months - - 10% iii. Request for renewal along with requisite premium
From 30 months to 33 months - - 5% shall be received by the Company before the end of
From 33 months to 36 months - - 0% the policy period.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein or iv. At the end of the policy period, the policy shall
otherwise, no refunds of premium shall be made in terminate and can be renewed within the Grace
respect of Cancellation where, any claim has been Period of 30 days to maintain continuity of benefits
admitted or has been lodged or any benefit has without break in policy. Coverage is not available
been availed by the Insured person under the during the grace period.
Policy.
v. No loading shall apply on renewals based on
b) The Company may cancel the Policy at any time on individual claims experience.
grounds of mis-representation, non-disclosure of
11. Withdrawal of Policy
material facts, fraud by the Insured Person, by
giving 15 days' written notice. There would be no i. ln the likelihood of this product being withdrawn in
refund of premium on cancellation on grounds of future, the Company will intimate the insured
mis-representation, non-disclosure of material person about the same 90 days prior to expiry of
facts or fraud. the policy.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 22 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Cancellation Period | Refund %
for 1 year
tenure
policy | Refund %
for 2 years
tenure
policy | Refund %
for 3 years
tenure
policy

Table Row: From 16 days to 1 month | 75% | 80% | 80%

Table Row: From 1 month to 3 months | 60% | 70% | 75%

Table Row: From 3 months to 6 months | 40% | 60% | 70%

Table Row: From 6 months to 9 months | 20% | 50% | 60%

Table Row: From 9 months to 12 months | 0% | 40% | 55%

Table Row: From 12 months to 15 months | - | 30% | 45%

Table Row: From 15 months to 18 months | - | 20% | 40%

Table Row: From 18 months to 21 months | - | 10% | 35%

Table Row: From 21 months to 24 months | - | 0% | 25%

Table Row: From 24 months to 27 months | - | - | 20%

Table Row: From 27 months to 30 months | - | - | 10%

Table Row: From 30 months to 33 months | - | - | 5%

Table Row: From 33 months to 36 months | - | - | 0%

Golden Shield
ii. lnsured Person will have the option to migrate to 15. Free look period
similar health insurance product available with the
The Free Look Period shall be applicable on new
Company at the time of renewal with all the
individual health insurance policies and not on
accrued continuity benefits such as cumulative
renewals or at the time of porting/migrating the policy.
bonus, waiver of waiting period as per IRDAI
The insured person shall be allowed free look period of
guidelines, provided the policy has been
fifteen days from date of receipt of the Policy
maintained without a break.
documents to review the terms and conditions of the
12. Moratorium Period
Policy, and to return the same if not acceptable.
After completion of eight continuous years under this
If the insured has not made any claim during the Free
policy no look back would be applied. This period of
Look Period, the insured shall be entitled to
eight years is called as moratorium period. The
a) a refund of the premium paid less any expenses
moratorium would be applicable for the sums insured
incurred by the company on medical examination
of the first policy and subsequently completion of 8
of the insured person and the stamp duty charges;
continuous years would be applicable from date of
or
enhancement of sum insured only on the enhanced
limits. After the expiry of Moratorium Period no health b) where the risk has already commenced and the
insurance claim shall be contestable except for proven option of return of the Policy is exercised by the
fraud and permanent exclusions specified in the policy insured person, a deduction towards the
contract. The policies would however be subject to all proportionate risk premium for period of cover or
limits, sub limits, co-payments, deductibles as per the c) where only a part of the insurance coverage has
policy contract commenced, such proportionate premium
13. Premium Payment in lnstalments (Wherever commensurate with the insurance coverage
applicable) during such period;
lf the insured person has opted for Payment of 16. Redressal of Grievances
Premium on an instalment basis i.e. Half Yearly, ln case of any grievance the insured person may
Quarterly or Monthly, as mentioned in the policy contact the company through
Schedule/Certificate of lnsurance, the following
Website : www.icicilombard.com
Conditions shall apply (notwithstanding any terms
Toll Free : 1800 2666
contrary elsewhere in the policy)
E-Mail : customersupport@icicilombard.com
i. Grace Period of 15 days would be given to pay the
Courier : ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Ltd.
instalment premium due for the policy.
I CICI Lombard House,
ii. During such grace period, coverage will not be
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,
available from the due date of instalment premium
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
till the date of receipt of premium by Company.
Prabhadevi, Mumbai- 400025
iii. The insured person will get the accrued continuity
lnsured person may also approach the grievance cell at
benefit in respect of the "Waiting Periods",
any of the company's branches with the details of
"Specific Waiting Periods" in the event of payment
grievance.
of premium within the stipulated grace Period.
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of
iv. No interest will be charged lf the instalment
grievance through one of the above methods, insured
premium is not paid on due date.
person may contact the grievance officer at :
v. ln case of instalment premium due not received
Manager- Service Quality,
within the grace period, the policy will get
Corporate Manager- Service Quality,
cancelled.
National Manager- Operations &
vi. ln the event of a claim, all subsequent premium
finally Director-services and Business development at
instalments shall immediately become due and
the following address:
payable.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited,
vii. The company has the right to recover and deduct
ICICI Lombard House,
all the pending instalments from the claim amount
414, Veer Savarkar Marg,
due under the policy.
Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple,
14. Possibility of Revision of Terms of the Policy Including Prabhadevi, Mumbai - 400 025.
the Premium Rates
For updated details of grievance officer, kindly refer the link
The Company, with prior approval of IRDAI, may revise
https://www.icicilombard.com/grievance-redressal
or modify the terms of the policy including the premium
lf lnsured person is not satisfied with the redressal of
rates. The insured person shall be notified three
grievance through above methods, the insured person
months before the changes are effected.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 23 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
may also approach the office of lnsurance based co-payment shall not be applicable in case of
Ombudsman of the respective area/region for medically necessary treatment taken for road traffic
redressal of grievance as per lnsurance Ombudsman accidents.
Rules 2017. Grievance may also be lodged at IRDAI
The additional zone based co-payment that will be levied will
lntegrated Grievance Management System be as per tables mentioned below
https://igms.irda.gov.in/
Additional zone based Co-Payment Grid
17. Nomination: Treatment Zone opted at
taken in Zone policy issuance
The policyholder is required at the inception of the
policy to make a nomination for the purpose of A B C
payment of claims under the policy in the event of A 0% 15.0% 25.0%
death of the policyholder. Any change of nomination B Nil additional 0% 12.0%
shall be communicated to the company in writing and co-payment
such change shall be effective only when an
C Nil additional Nil additional 0%
endorsement on the policy is made. ln the event of co-payment co-payment
death of the policyholder, the Company will pay the
Please refer to the claim illustrations as detailed in g.
nominee {as named in the Policy Schedule/Policy
other terms and conditions 1. Claim Administration for
Certificate/Endorsement (if any)} and in case there is no
further understanding
subsisting nominee, to the legal heirs or legal
19. Conditional Underwriting
representatives of the policyholder whose discharge
shall be treated as full and final discharge of its liability Risk based loading:
under the policy. We may apply a risk loading on the premium payable
ii. Specific terms and clauses (terms and other clauses (based on the declarations made in the proposal form
other than those mentioned above under f. I. above) and the health status of the persons proposed for
insurance) at the Commencement Date or on any
18. Zone based Premium
renewal of the Policy with Us or on the receipt of a
This Policy only covers medical treatment taken within
request for enhancing the Annual Sum Insured. The
India arising during the Policy Period. All payments
maximum risk loading applicable for an individual will
under this Policy will only be made in Indian Rupees
not exceed 100% per diagnosis / medical condition and
within India.
an overall risk loading of 200% per individual.
The construction, interpretation and meaning of the
We will send You the applicable risk loading in writing
provisions of this Policy shall be determined in
via a counter offer letter. You shall give Us Your consent
accordance with Indian law.
and the additional premium (if any), within 15 days of
For the purpose of Policy issuance, the premium will be the issuance of Our Counter offer letter.
computed basis the zone chosen by the Insured Person
If You neither accept Our letter nor revert to Us within
in the proposal form. The premium that would be
15 days, We will cancel Your application and refund the
applicable zone wise and the cities defined in each
premium paid within the next 7 days.
zone are as under:
20. Material Change
• Zone A- NCR*, Mumbai, Thane District,, Navi
The Insured shall notify the Company in writing of any
Mumbai, Gujarat, Kolkata
material change in the risk in relation to the declaration
• Zone B- Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Chhattisgarh,
made in the proposal form or medical examination
Madhya Pradesh, Daman & Diu, Dadar & Nagar
report at each Renewal and the Company may, adjust
Haveli, Goa, Maharashtra (excluding Mumbai,
the scope of cover and/or premium, if necessary,
Thane District, Navi Mumbai)
accordingly.
• Zone C- Rest of India
21. Records to be Maintained
NCR* includes Includes Delhi and the following
The Insured Person shall keep an accurate record
districts: Faridabad, Gurgaon/Gurugram, Mewat,
containing all relevant medical records and shall allow
Rohtak, Sonipat, Panipat, Jhajjhar, Palwal, Karnal,
the Company or its representatives to inspect such
Ghaziabad, Noida/Gautam Budh Nagar, Bulandshahr,
records. The Proposer or Insured Person shall furnish
Baghpat, Hapur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar
such information as the Company may require for
Additional zone based Co-Payment would be levied on settlement of any claim under the Policy, within
each and every claim (over and above the base co- reasonable time limit and within the time limit specified
payment opted by the Insured person) in case in the Policy.
medically necessary treatment has been taken in a
22. Notice & Communication
zone higher (Zone A being the highest followed by
i. Any notice, direction, instruction or any other
Zone B and then Zone C) than the zone for which
communication related to the Policy should be
premium has been paid on issuance of the policy. Zone
made in writing.
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 24 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Additional zone based Co-Payment Grid |  |  | 

Table Row: Treatment
taken in Zone | Zone opted at
policy issuance |  | 

Table Row:  | A | B | C

Table Row: A | 0% | 15.0% | 25.0%

Table Row: B | Nil additional
co-payment | 0% | 12.0%

Table Row: C | Nil additional
co-payment | Nil additional
co-payment | 0%

Golden Shield
ii. Such communication shall be sent to the address and Conciliation Act 1996, as amended by
of the Company or through any other electronic Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act,
modes specified in the Policy Schedule. 2015 (No. 3 of 2016).
iii. The Company shall communicate to the Insured at ii. It is clearly agreed and understood that no difference
the address or through any other electronic mode or dispute shall be preferable to arbitration as herein
mentioned in the schedule. before provided, if the Company has disputed or not
accepted liability under or in respect of the policy, iii. It
23. Territorial Limit
is hereby expressly stipulated and declared that it
All medical treatment for the purpose of this insurance
shall be a condition precedent to any right of action or
will have to be taken in India only.
suit upon the policy that award by such arbitrator /
24. Automatic change in Coverage under the policy arbitrators of the amount of expenses shall be first
The coverage for the Insured Person(s) shall obtained.
automatically terminate: 27. Policy alignment
i. In the case of his/ her (Insured Person) demise. Policy Alignment option will be available in cases
However the cover shall continue for the remaining wherein insured(s) with two separate health indemnity
Insured Persons till the end of Policy Period. The policies with Us, having different policy end dates but
other insured persons may also apply to renew the want to align the policy start dates. We can align the
policy. In case, the other insured person is minor, policies by extending the coverage of one policy till the
the policy shall be renewed only through any one end date of the other policy.
of his/her natural guardian or guardian appointed Such policies will be charged with premium on pro rata
by court. All relevant particulars in respect of such basis though the sum insured under the policy shall
person (including his/her relationship with the remain constant.
insured person) must be submitted to the company
28. Endorsements (Changes in Policy)
along with the application. Provided no claim has
i. This policy constitutes the complete contract of
been made, and termination takes place on
insurance. This Policy cannot be modified by
account of death of the insured person, pro-rata
anyone (including an insurance agent or broker)
refund of premium of the deceased insured person
except the company. Any change made by the
for the balance period of the policy will be effective.
company shall be evidenced by a written
ii. Upon exhaustion of sum insured and additional
endorsement signed and stamped.
sum insured (if any), for the policy year. However,
ii. The proposer may be changed only at the time of
the policy is subject to renewal on the due date as
renewal. The new proposer must be the legal
per the applicable terms and conditions.
heir/immediate family member. Such change
25. Territorial Jurisdiction would be subject to acceptance by the company
All disputes or differences under or in relation to the and payment of premium (if any). The renewed
interpretation of the terms, conditions, validity, Policy shall be treated as having been renewed
construct, limitations and/or exclusions contained in without break.
the Policy shall be determined by the Indian court and iii. The proposer may be changed during the Policy
according to Indian law. Period only in case of his/her demise or him/her
26. Arbitration moving out of India.
i. If any dispute or difference shall arise as to the iv. Mid- term endorsement of addition of members in
quantum to be paid by the Policy, (liability being the policy shall not be permitted
otherwise admitted) such difference shall 29. Change of Sum Insured
independently of all other questions, be referred to
Sum insured can be changed (increased/ decreased)
the decision of a sole arbitrator to be appointed in
only at the time of renewal subject to underwriting by
writing by the parties here to or if they cannot
the Company. For any increase in SI, the waiting period
agree upon a single arbitrator within thirty days of
shall start afresh only for the enhanced portion of the
any party invoking arbitration, the same shall be
sum insured.
referred to a panel of three arbitrators, comprising
30. Non Payables
two arbitrators, one to be appointed by each of the
parties to the dispute/difference and the third Below are the non-payable items applicable in the
arbitrator to be appointed by such two arbitrators policy. The list may be updated as per the direction of
and arbitration shall be conducted under and in Authority, for updated list please visit our website:
accordance with the provisions of the Arbitration www.iciciclombard.com
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 25 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
List of Non Payable Items as per IRDAI List of Non Payable Items as per IRDAI (Contd.)
Sr. No. Items Sr. No. Items
1 BABY FOOD 48 NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES
2 BABY UTILITIES CHARGES 49 AMBULANCE COLLAR
3 BEAUTY SERVICES 50 AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT
4 BELTS/ BRACES 51 ABDOMINAL BINDER
5 BUDS 52 PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING
CHARGES
6 COLD PACK/HOT PACK
53 SUGAR FREE Tablets
7 CARRY BAGS
54 CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not
8 EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES
payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals
9 FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’s DIET
payable)
PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)
55 ECG ELECTRODES
10 LEGGINGS
56 GLOVES
11 LAUNDRY CHARGES
57 NEBULISATION KIT
12 MINERAL WATER
58 RECOVERY KIT, ETC]ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS
13 SANITARY PAD
MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT,
14 TELEPHONE CHARGES
59 KIDNEY TRAY
15 GUEST SERVICES
60 MASK
16 CREPE BANDAGE
61 OUNCE GLASS
17 DIAPER OF ANY TYPE
62 OXYGEN MASK
18 EYELET COLLAR
63 PELVIC TRACTION BELT
19 SLINGS
64 PAN CAN
20 BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF
65 TROLLY COVER
DONORS SAMPLES
66 UROMETER, URINE JUG
21 SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE
67 AMBULANCE
ALSO CHARGED
68 VASOFIX SAFETY
22 Television Charges
f. Other Terms and Conditions
23 SURCHARGES
1. Claim Administration
24 ATTENDANT CHARGES
The fulfilment of the terms and conditions of this
25 EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT
Policy (including payment of premium by the due
WHICH FORMS PART OF BED
dates mentioned in the Policy Schedule) insofar as
26 BIRTH CERTIFICATE
they relate to anything to be done or complied with
27 CERTIFICATE CHARGES
by each of You shall be conditions precedent to
28 COURIER CHARGES
admission of Our liability. You are requested to go
29 CONVEYANCE CHARGES
through our list of de-listed/excluded providers
30 MEDICAL CERTIFICATE which is available on our website. As the list is
31 MEDICAL RECORDS dynamic, please refer to the latest list.
32 PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES The claim pay-out would be adjudicated in
33 MORTUARY CHARGES following sequence:
34 WALKING AIDS CHARGES i. If a room/ICU accommodation has been opted
35 OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE for where the room rent or category is higher
HOSPITAL) than the eligible limit as applicable for the
Insured Person, then the associated medical
36 SPACER
expenses payable shall be pro-rated as per
37 SPIROMETRE
applicable limits.
38 NEBULIZER KIT
ii. Associated medical expenses means those
39 STEAM INHALER
expenses as listed below which vary in
40 ARMSLING
accordance with the room rent or room
41 THERMOMETER
category or ICU Charges in a hospital:
42 CERVICAL COLLAR a. Room, boarding, nursing and operation
43 SPLINT theatre expenses as charged by the
44 DIABETIC FOOT WEAR Hospital where the insured person availed
45 KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED) treatment
46 KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER b. Intensive care unit (ICU) Charges
47 LUMBO SACRAL BELT
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 26 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Sr. No. | Items

Table Row: 1 | BABY FOOD

Table Row: 2 | BABY UTILITIES CHARGES

Table Row: 3 | BEAUTY SERVICES

Table Row: 4 | BELTS/ BRACES

Table Row: 5 | BUDS

Table Row: 6 | COLD PACK/HOT PACK

Table Row: 7 | CARRY BAGS

Table Row: 8 | EMAIL / INTERNET CHARGES

Table Row: 9 | FOOD CHARGES (OTHER THAN PATIENT’s DIET
PROVIDED BY HOSPITAL)

Table Row: 10 | LEGGINGS

Table Row: 11 | LAUNDRY CHARGES

Table Row: 12 | MINERAL WATER

Table Row: 13 | SANITARY PAD

Table Row: 14 | TELEPHONE CHARGES

Table Row: 15 | GUEST SERVICES

Table Row: 16 | CREPE BANDAGE

Table Row: 17 | DIAPER OF ANY TYPE

Table Row: 18 | EYELET COLLAR

Table Row: 19 | SLINGS

Table Row: 20 | BLOOD GROUPING AND CROSS MATCHING OF
DONORS SAMPLES

Table Row: 21 | SERVICE CHARGES WHERE NURSING CHARGE
ALSO CHARGED

Table Row: 22 | Television Charges

Table Row: 23 | SURCHARGES

Table Row: 24 | ATTENDANT CHARGES

Table Row: 25 | EXTRA DIET OF PATIENT (OTHER THAN THAT
WHICH FORMS PART OF BED

Table Row: 26 | BIRTH CERTIFICATE

Table Row: 27 | CERTIFICATE CHARGES

Table Row: 28 | COURIER CHARGES

Table Row: 29 | CONVEYANCE CHARGES

Table Row: 30 | MEDICAL CERTIFICATE

Table Row: 31 | MEDICAL RECORDS

Table Row: 32 | PHOTOCOPIES CHARGES

Table Row: 33 | MORTUARY CHARGES

Table Row: 34 | WALKING AIDS CHARGES

Table Row: 35 | OXYGEN CYLINDER (FOR USAGE OUTSIDE THE
HOSPITAL)

Table Row: 36 | SPACER

Table Row: 37 | SPIROMETRE

Table Row: 38 | NEBULIZER KIT

Table Row: 39 | STEAM INHALER

Table Row: 40 | ARMSLING

Table Row: 41 | THERMOMETER

Table Row: 42 | CERVICAL COLLAR

Table Row: 43 | SPLINT

Table Row: 44 | DIABETIC FOOT WEAR

Table Row: 45 | KNEE BRACES (LONG/ SHORT/ HINGED)

Table Row: 46 | KNEE IMMOBILIZER/SHOULDER IMMOBILIZER

Table Row: 47 | LUMBO SACRAL BELT

Table Row: Sr. No. | Items

Table Row: 48 | NIMBUS BED OR WATER OR AIR BED CHARGES

Table Row: 49 | AMBULANCE COLLAR

Table Row: 50 | AMBULANCE EQUIPMENT

Table Row: 51 | ABDOMINAL BINDER

Table Row: 52 | PRIVATE NURSES CHARGES- SPECIAL NURSING
CHARGES

Table Row: 53 | SUGAR FREE Tablets

Table Row: 54 | CREAMS POWDERS LOTIONS (Toiletries are not
payable, only prescribed medical pharmaceuticals
payable)

Table Row: 55 | ECG ELECTRODES

Table Row: 56 | GLOVES

Table Row: 57 | NEBULISATION KIT

Table Row: 58 | RECOVERY KIT, ETC]ANY KIT WITH NO DETAILS
MENTIONED [DELIVERY KIT, ORTHOKIT,

Table Row: 59 | KIDNEY TRAY

Table Row: 60 | MASK

Table Row: 61 | OUNCE GLASS

Table Row: 62 | OXYGEN MASK

Table Row: 63 | PELVIC TRACTION BELT

Table Row: 64 | PAN CAN

Table Row: 65 | TROLLY COVER

Table Row: 66 | UROMETER, URINE JUG

Table Row: 67 | AMBULANCE

Table Row: 68 | VASOFIX SAFETY

Golden Shield
c. Fees charged by surgeon, anesthetist, applied incase voluntary deductible has been
medical practitioner opted for.
d. Investigation expenses v. Base Co-payment shall be applicable on the
iii. Zone based co-payment shall be applicable in amount payable by Us and our liability to
all cases (Except medically necessary make payment shall than be arrived at.
treatment for road traffic accidents) where vi. In case, the claim is for a Procedure/Medical
treatment is taken in a zone higher than for Condition/Ailment/Disease which is subject to
which premium was paid for sub-limits as per policy terms and conditions,
iv. The voluntary deductible shall be applied to the claim will be settled to the extent of
aggregate of all claims that are either paid or amount which is lesser of the three amounts –
payable (not excluded) under this policy. Our i.e. claimed amount or maximum amount as
liability to make payment shall commence only per sub-limits applicable or ICICI Lombard
once the aggregate amount of all claims Liability after deduction of base co-payment/
payable or paid exceed the voluntary voluntary deductible.
deductible. Base Co-payment shall not be
Illustrations for claim settlement
Illustration 1 - Insured Person opted for base co-payment
Heading Particulars Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
A. Annual Sum Insured ` 10,00,000 ` 10,00,000 ` 10,00,000
B. Base Co-payment opted at time of policy issuance 20% 20% 20%
Zone opted B (Goa) B (Goa) B (Goa)
Hospitalization Diagnosis Heart Attack/ Heart Attack/ Heart Attack/
PTCA done/ PTCA done/ PTCA done/
Cardiovascular Cardiovascular Cardiovascular
disease disease disease
Treatment taken in Goa (Zone B) Mumbai (Zone A) Guwahati (Zone C)
C. Hospitalisation expenses Amount ` 4,00,000 ` 5,00,000 ` 3,00,000
D. Pre and Post hospitalisation expenses ` 35,000 ` 50,000 ` 20,000
E. Total claimed Expenses*[C+D] ` 4,35,000 ` 5,50,000 ` 3,20,000
F. Zone based co-payment 0% 15% 0%
G. Claimed amount after application of zone based co-payment ` 4,35,000 ` 4,67,500 ` 3,20,000
[E*F]
H. Sub-limit for cardiovascular diseases ` 3,50,000 ` 3,50,000 ` 3,50,000
I. Insured Person liability after application of base co-payment ` 87,000 ` 93,500 ` 64,000
[G*B]
J. ICICI Lombard Liability after deduction of co-payment [G-I] ` 3,48,000 ` 3,74,000 ` 2,56,000
K. Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser amount out of G, H, J] ` 3,48,000 ` 3,50,000 ` 2,56,000
L. Balance Annual Sum Insured [A-K] ` 6,52,000 ` 6,50,000 ` 7,44,000
*It has been assumed that total claimed expenses are same as total payable expenses. i.e. there are no deductions in the claimed amount.
Illustration 2 - Insured person opted for voluntary deductible
Heading Particulars Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
A. Annual Sum Insured ` 20,00,000 ` 20,00,000 ` 20,00,000
B. Voluntary deductible opted at time of policy issuance ` 4,00,000 ` 4,00,000 ` 4,00,000
C. Base Co-payment applicable NA NA NA
Zone opted B (Goa) B (Goa) B (Goa)
Hospitalization Diagnosis Heart Attack/ Heart Attack/ Heart Attack/
PTCA done/ PTCA done/ PTCA done/
Cardiovascular Cardiovascular Cardiovascular
disease disease disease
Treatment taken in Goa (Zone B) Mumbai (Zone A) Guwahati (Zone C)
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 27 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Heading | Particulars | Scenario 1 | Scenario 2 | Scenario 3

Table Row: A. | Annual Sum Insured | ` 10,00,000 | ` 10,00,000 | ` 10,00,000

Table Row: B. | Base Co-payment opted at time of policy issuance | 20% | 20% | 20%

Table Row:  | Zone opted | B (Goa) | B (Goa) | B (Goa)

Table Row:  | Hospitalization Diagnosis | Heart Attack/
PTCA done/
Cardiovascular
disease | Heart Attack/
PTCA done/
Cardiovascular
disease | Heart Attack/
PTCA done/
Cardiovascular
disease

Table Row:  | Treatment taken in | Goa (Zone B) | Mumbai (Zone A) | Guwahati (Zone C)

Table Row: C. | Hospitalisation expenses Amount | ` 4,00,000 | ` 5,00,000 | ` 3,00,000

Table Row: D. | Pre and Post hospitalisation expenses | ` 35,000 | ` 50,000 | ` 20,000

Table Row: E. | Total claimed Expenses*[C+D] | ` 4,35,000 | ` 5,50,000 | ` 3,20,000

Table Row: F. | Zone based co-payment | 0% | 15% | 0%

Table Row: G. | Claimed amount after application of zone based co-payment
[E*F] | ` 4,35,000 | ` 4,67,500 | ` 3,20,000

Table Row: H. | Sub-limit for cardiovascular diseases | ` 3,50,000 | ` 3,50,000 | ` 3,50,000

Table Row: I. | Insured Person liability after application of base co-payment
[G*B] | ` 87,000 | ` 93,500 | ` 64,000

Table Row: J. | ICICI Lombard Liability after deduction of co-payment [G-I] | ` 3,48,000 | ` 3,74,000 | ` 2,56,000

Table Row: K. | Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser amount out of G, H, J] | ` 3,48,000 | ` 3,50,000 | ` 2,56,000

Table Row: L. | Balance Annual Sum Insured [A-K] | ` 6,52,000 | ` 6,50,000 | ` 7,44,000

Table Row: Heading | Particulars | Scenario 1 | Scenario 2 | Scenario 3

Table Row: A. | Annual Sum Insured | ` 20,00,000 | ` 20,00,000 | ` 20,00,000

Table Row: B. | Voluntary deductible opted at time of policy issuance | ` 4,00,000 | ` 4,00,000 | ` 4,00,000

Table Row: C. | Base Co-payment applicable | NA | NA | NA

Table Row:  | Zone opted | B (Goa) | B (Goa) | B (Goa)

Table Row:  | Hospitalization Diagnosis | Heart Attack/
PTCA done/
Cardiovascular
disease | Heart Attack/
PTCA done/
Cardiovascular
disease | Heart Attack/
PTCA done/
Cardiovascular
disease

Table Row:  | Treatment taken in | Goa (Zone B) | Mumbai (Zone A) | Guwahati (Zone C)

Golden Shield
Illustrations for claim settlement (Contd.)
Illustration 2 - Insured person opted for voluntary deductible (Contd.)
Heading Particulars Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3
D. Hospitalisation expenses Amount ` 4,00,000 ` 5,00,000 ` 3,00,000
E. Pre and Post hospitalisation expenses ` 35,000 ` 50,000 ` 20,000
F. Total claimed Expenses*[D+E] ` 4,35,000 ` 5,50,000 ` 3,20,000
G. Zone based co-payment 0% 15% 0%
H. Claimed amount after application of zone based co-payment ` 4,35,000 ` 4,67,500 ` 3,20,000
[F*G]
I. IL Liability after application of voluntary deductible [H-B] ` 35,000 ` 67,500 NA as
expenses have
not crossed
voluntary
deductible
amount
J. Sub-limit for cardiovascular diseases ` 3,50,000 ` 3,50,000 ` 3,50,000
K. Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser amount out of I,J] ` 35,000 ` 67,500 -
L. Balance Annual Sum Insured [A-K] ` 19,65,000 ` 19,32,500 ` 20,00,000
*It has been assumed that total claimed expenses are same as total payable expenses. i.e. there are no deductions in the claimed amount.
The claim amount assessed above would be deducted from the authorization by providing Your Policy number and ID
following amounts in the following progressive order: proof to the hospital who can co-ordinate with Our
1. Annual Sum Insured claim team to provide cashless facility. We will consider
Your request after having obtained accurate and
2. Additional Sum Insured/Cumulative Bonus (if accrued and
complete information for the Illness or Injury for which
available)
cashless Hospitalization facility is sought by You and
3. Reset Sum Insured (If applicable)
We will confirm Your request in writing.
Further, upon the discovery or happening of any Illness or Injury
B. For Reimbursement Settlement
that may give rise to a Claim under this Policy, then as a
i. You shall give notice to Us or Our in house claim
condition precedent to the admission of Our liability, You shall
processing team by calling the toll free number
undertake the following:
1800 2666 or emailing us at a s
1.1 Claims Procedure
customersupport@icicilombard.com specified in
A. For Cashless Settlement
the Policy provided to You and also in writing at
Cashless treatment is only available at a Network Our address with particulars as below:
Provider (List of Network Providers is available at our
v Policy number;
website). In order to avail of cashless treatment, the
v Your Name;
following procedure must be followed by You:
v Your relationship with the Policyholder;
Pre-authorization
v Nature of Illness or Injury;
Prior to taking treatment and/ or incurring Medical
Expenses at a Network Provider, You must contact Us v Name and address of the attending Medical
or Our in house claim processing team accompanied Practitioner and the Hospital;
with full particulars namely, Policy Number, Your name, v Any other information that may be relevant to
Your relationship with Policy Holder, nature of Illness or the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalisation
Injury, name and address of the Medical Practitioner/
The above information needs to be provided to Us
Hospital and any other information that may be
or Our in house claim processing team immediately
relevant to the Illness/ Injury/ Hospitalisation. You must
and in any event within 10 days of Hospitalization,
request preauthorization at least 48 hours before a
failing which We will have the right to treat the
planned Hospitalization and in case of an emergency
Claim as inadmissible, as We may deem fit at Our
situation, within 24 hours of Hospitalization. To avail of
sole discretion.
Cashless Hospitalization facility, you are required to
ii. You must immediately consult a Medical
produce the health card, as provided to You with this
Practitioner and follow the advice and treatment
Policy, subject to the terms and conditions for the
that he recommends.
usage of the said health card Or You can seek pre
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 28 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Heading | Particulars | Scenario 1 | Scenario 2 | Scenario 3

Table Row: D. | Hospitalisation expenses Amount | ` 4,00,000 | ` 5,00,000 | ` 3,00,000

Table Row: E. | Pre and Post hospitalisation expenses | ` 35,000 | ` 50,000 | ` 20,000

Table Row: F. | Total claimed Expenses*[D+E] | ` 4,35,000 | ` 5,50,000 | ` 3,20,000

Table Row: G. | Zone based co-payment | 0% | 15% | 0%

Table Row: H. | Claimed amount after application of zone based co-payment
[F*G] | ` 4,35,000 | ` 4,67,500 | ` 3,20,000

Table Row: I. | IL Liability after application of voluntary deductible [H-B] | ` 35,000 | ` 67,500 | NA as
expenses have
not crossed
voluntary
deductible
amount

Table Row: J. | Sub-limit for cardiovascular diseases | ` 3,50,000 | ` 3,50,000 | ` 3,50,000

Table Row: K. | Final payable amount to Insured Person [lesser amount out of I,J] | ` 35,000 | ` 67,500 | -

Table Row: L. | Balance Annual Sum Insured [A-K] | ` 19,65,000 | ` 19,32,500 | ` 20,00,000

Golden Shield
You or someone claiming on Your behalf must promptly of Policy) OR communicate non admissibility of claim
and in any event within 30 days of Your discharge from within 14 days after You submit complete set of
a Hospital (for post-hospitalization expenses, within documents & information in respect of the claims. In
30 days from the completion of post-hospitalization case We fail to make the payment of admissible claims
period) deliver to Us the documentation (written details or to communicate non admissibility of claim within the
of the quantum of any Claim along with all original time period, We shall pay 2% interest over and above
supporting documentation) as more particularly listed the rate defined as per IRDAI (Protection of
in Claim documents section. In case there is a delay Policyholder's interest) Regulation 2017.
beyond 30 days in submission of claim documents, we
B. For Cashless Claims: If You notify pre authorization
may condone the delay provided the insured person
request for cashless facility through any of Our
submits a valid reason justifying the delay to us in
empanelled network hospitals along with complete set
writing. However, in both the above cases i.e.
of documents & information, We will respond within 4
g.1.1.1(A) & (B), You must take reasonable steps or
hours of the actual receipt of such pre authorization
measure to minimise the quantum of any Claim that
request with:
may be covered under the Policy If so requested by Us
a. Approval, or
or Our in house claim processing team, You will have to
b. Rejection, or
undergo a medical examination from Our nominated
Medical Practitioner, as and when We or Our in house c. Query seeking further information
claim processing team considers reasonable and
In case the request is for enhancement, i.e. Request
necessary. The cost of such examination will be borne
for increase in the amount already authorized, We
by Us.
will respond to it within 3 hours.
Claim falling in two Policy periods
In case of delay in response by Us beyond the time
If the claim event falls within two Policy periods, the claims period as stated above for cashless claims, We
shall be paid taking into consideration the available Sum shall be liable to pay ` 1,000 to You. Our maximum
Insured in the two Policy periods, including the Deductions liability in respect of a single hospitalization shall,
for each Policy Period. Such eligible claim amount to be at no time exceed ` 1,000. We will not be liable to
payable to the Insured shall be reduced to the extent of make any payments under this Claim Service
premium to be received for the Renewal/due date of Guarantee in case of any force majeure, natural
premium of health insurance Policy, if not received earlier. event or manmade disturbance which impedes
Our inability to make a decision or to communicate
1.2 CLAIM DOCUMENTS
such decisions to You.
You shall be required to furnish the following documents for
The service guarantee shall not be applicable for
or in support of a Claim:
any cases delayed on account of reasonable
i. Duly completed Claim form signed by You and the
apprehension of fraud or fraudulent claims or
Medical Practitioner. The claim form can be
cases referred to/by any adjudicative forum for
downloaded from our website www.icicilombard.com.
necessary disposal.
ii. Original bills, receipts and discharge certificate/ card
You may lodge claim separately for the
from the Hospital/ Medical Practitioner.
hospitalization claim, Pre-Post hospitalization. In
iii. Original bills from chemists supported by proper
such scenario, if delay happens beyond the time
prescription.
period as specified above, the interest amount
iv. Original investigation test reports and payment calculated will be on the net sanctioned amount of
receipts. respective transaction and not the total amount
paid for the entire claim.
v. Indoor case papers
Any amount paid towards interest under Claim
vi. Medical Practitioner's referral letter advising
Service Guarantee will not affect the Annual Sum
Hospitalization in non-Accident cases.
Insured as specified in the Schedule.
vii. Any other document as required by Us or Our TPA to
If you are not eligible for 'Claim Service Guarantee'
investigate the Claim or Our obligation to make
for the reasons stated above, We will inform the
payment for it
same to You, within 14 days in case of A. For
1.3 Claim Service Guarantee
Reimbursement claims and within 4 hours in case
We provide You Claim Service Guarantee as follows
of B. For Cashless claims above.
A. For Reimbursement Claims: We shall make the
payment of admissible claim (as per terms & conditions
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 29 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Golden Shield
Annexure A
Jurisdiction of Office Jurisdiction of Office
Office Details Office Details
Union Territory, District) Union Territory, District)
AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh Gujarat, Dadra & JAIPUR Rajasthan.
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Nagar Haveli, Daman Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th Floor, Tilak and Diu. Jeevan Nidhi - II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani
Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001. Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06 Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in
BENGALURU Karnataka. ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra Kerala, Lakshadweep,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Mahe-a part of Union
Jeevan Soudha Building, PID No. 57-27-N-19, 2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin Territory of
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road, Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015. Puducherry.
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru - 560 078. Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049 Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in
BHOPAL Madhya Pradesh KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath West Bengal, Sikkim,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Chattisgarh. Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Andaman & Nicobar
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor, Islands.
Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market, 4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.
Bhopal – 462 003. Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202 Fax : 033 - 22124341
Fax: 0755 - 2769203 Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in
LUCKNOW - Shri Justice Anil Kumar Districts of Uttar
BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra Orissa. Srivastava Pradesh : Lalitpur,
Panda Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Jhansi, Mahoba,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62, 6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II, Hamirpur, Banda,
Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009. Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj, Chitrakoot,
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455 Lucknow - 226 001. Allahabad, Mirzapur,
Fax: 0674 - 2596429 Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331 Sonbhabdra,
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in Fax: 0522 - 2231310 Fatehpur, Pratapgarh,
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in Jaunpur,Varanasi,
CHANDIGARH Punjab, Haryana Gazipur, Jalaun,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, (excluding Gurugram, Kanpur, Lucknow,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor, Faridabad, Sonepat Unnao, Sitapur,
Batra Building, Sector 17-D, and Bahadurgarh) Lakhimpur, Bahraich,
Chandigarh - 160 017. Himachal Pradesh, Barabanki, Raebareli,
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468 Union Territories of Sravasti, Gonda,
Fax: 0172 - 2708274 Jammu & Kashmir,
Faizabad, Amethi,
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in Ladakh &
Chandigarh. Kaushambi,
Balrampur, Basti,
CHENNAI Tamil Nadu, Tamil Ambedkarnagar,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Nadu Puducherry Sultanpur,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453, Town and Karaikal Maharajgang,
Anna Salai, Teynampet, Chennai - 600 018. (which are part of Santkabirnagar,
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284 Puducherry). Azamgarh,
Fax: 044 - 24333664 Kushinagar,
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in Gorkhpur, Deoria,
Mau, Ghazipur,
DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna Delhi & Following Chandauli, Ballia,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Districts of Haryana Sidharathnagar.
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building, - Gurugram,
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi - 110 002. Faridabad, Sonepat MUMBAI Goa, Mumbai
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504 & Bahadurgarh. Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Metropolitan Region
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in 3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road, excluding Navi
Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054. Mumbai & Thane.
GUWAHATI Assam, Meghalaya,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Manipur, Mizoram, Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over Arunachal Pradesh, Fax: 022 - 26106052
Bridge, S. S. Road, Guwahati -781001 Nagaland and Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in
(ASSAM). Tripura.
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in
HYDERABAD Andhra Pradesh,
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Telangana, Yanam
6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”, Lane Opp. and part of Union
Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards, Territory of
Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004. Puducherry.
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 30 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Jurisdiction of Office
Union Territory, District) | Office Details

Table Row: AHMEDABAD - Shri Kuldip Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Prakash Building, 6th Floor, Tilak
Marg, Relief Road, Ahmedabad - 380 001.
Tel.: 079 - 25501201/02/05/06
Email: bimalokpal.ahmedabad@cioins.co.in | Gujarat, Dadra &
Nagar Haveli, Daman
and Diu.

Table Row: BENGALURU
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Soudha Building, PID No. 57-27-N-19,
Ground Floor, 19/19, 24th Main Road,
JP Nagar, Ist Phase, Bengaluru - 560 078.
Tel.: 080 - 26652048 / 26652049
Email: bimalokpal.bengaluru@cioins.co.in | Karnataka.

Table Row: BHOPAL
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Janak Vihar Complex, 2nd Floor, 6, Malviya
Nagar, Opp. Airtel Office, Near New Market,
Bhopal – 462 003.
Tel.: 0755 - 2769201 / 2769202
Fax: 0755 - 2769203
Email: bimalokpal.bhopal@cioins.co.in | Madhya Pradesh
Chattisgarh.

Table Row: BHUBANESHWAR - Shri Suresh Chandra
Panda
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, 62,
Forest park, Bhubneshwar – 751 009.
Tel.: 0674 - 2596461 /2596455
Fax: 0674 - 2596429
Email: bimalokpal.bhubaneswar@cioins.co.in | Orissa.

Table Row: CHANDIGARH
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
S.C.O. No. 101, 102 & 103, 2nd Floor,
Batra Building, Sector 17-D,
Chandigarh - 160 017.
Tel.: 0172 - 2706196 / 2706468
Fax: 0172 - 2708274
Email: bimalokpal.chandigarh@cioins.co.in | Punjab, Haryana
(excluding Gurugram,
Faridabad, Sonepat
and Bahadurgarh)
Himachal Pradesh,
Union Territories of
Jammu & Kashmir,
Ladakh &
Chandigarh.

Table Row: CHENNAI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Fatima Akhtar Court, 4th Floor, 453,
Anna Salai, Teynampet, Chennai - 600 018.
Tel.: 044 - 24333668 / 24335284
Fax: 044 - 24333664
Email: bimalokpal.chennai@cioins.co.in | Tamil Nadu, Tamil
Nadu Puducherry
Town and Karaikal
(which are part of
Puducherry).

Table Row: DELHI - Shri Sudhir Krishna
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2/2 A, Universal Insurance Building,
Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi - 110 002.
Tel.: 011 - 23232481/23213504
Email: bimalokpal.delhi@cioins.co.in | Delhi & Following
Districts of Haryana
- Gurugram,
Faridabad, Sonepat
& Bahadurgarh.

Table Row: GUWAHATI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nivesh, 5th Floor, Nr. Panbazar over
Bridge, S. S. Road, Guwahati -781001
(ASSAM).
Tel.: 0361 - 2632204 / 2602205
Email: bimalokpal.guwahati@cioins.co.in | Assam, Meghalaya,
Manipur, Mizoram,
Arunachal Pradesh,
Nagaland and
Tripura.

Table Row: HYDERABAD
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6-2-46, 1st floor, “Moin Court”, Lane Opp.
Saleem Function Palace, A. C. Guards,
Lakdi-Ka-Pool, Hyderabad - 500 004.
Tel.: 040 - 23312122 Fax: 040 - 23376599
Email: bimalokpal.hyderabad@cioins.co.in | Andhra Pradesh,
Telangana, Yanam
and part of Union
Territory of
Puducherry.

Table Row: Jurisdiction of Office
Union Territory, District) | Office Details

Table Row: JAIPUR
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Nidhi - II Bldg., Gr. Floor, Bhawani
Singh Marg, Jaipur - 302 005.
Tel.: 0141 - 2740363
Email: bimalokpal.jaipur@cioins.co.in | Rajasthan.

Table Row: ERNAKULAM - Ms. Poonam Bodra
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
2nd Floor, Pulinat Bldg., Opp. Cochin
Shipyard, M. G. Road, Ernakulam - 682 015.
Tel.: 0484 - 2358759 / 2359338
Fax: 0484 - 2359336
Email: bimalokpal.ernakulam@cioins.co.in | Kerala, Lakshadweep,
Mahe-a part of Union
Territory of
Puducherry.

Table Row: KOLKATA - Shri P. K. Rath
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Hindustan Bldg. Annexe, 4th Floor,
4, C.R. Avenue, KOLKATA - 700 072.
Tel.: 033 - 22124339 / 22124340
Fax : 033 - 22124341
Email: bimalokpal.kolkata@cioins.co.in | West Bengal, Sikkim,
Andaman & Nicobar
Islands.

Table Row: LUCKNOW - Shri Justice Anil Kumar
Srivastava
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
6th Floor, Jeevan Bhawan, Phase-II,
Nawal Kishore Road, Hazratganj,
Lucknow - 226 001.
Tel.: 0522 - 2231330 / 2231331
Fax: 0522 - 2231310
Email: bimalokpal.lucknow@cioins.co.in | Districts of Uttar
Pradesh : Lalitpur,
Jhansi, Mahoba,
Hamirpur, Banda,
Chitrakoot,
Allahabad, Mirzapur,
Sonbhabdra,
Fatehpur, Pratapgarh,
Jaunpur,Varanasi,
Gazipur, Jalaun,
Kanpur, Lucknow,
Unnao, Sitapur,
Lakhimpur, Bahraich,
Barabanki, Raebareli,
Sravasti, Gonda,
Faizabad, Amethi,
Kaushambi,
Balrampur, Basti,
Ambedkarnagar,
Sultanpur,
Maharajgang,
Santkabirnagar,
Azamgarh,
Kushinagar,
Gorkhpur, Deoria,
Mau, Ghazipur,
Chandauli, Ballia,
Sidharathnagar.

Table Row: MUMBAI
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
3rd Floor, Jeevan Seva Annexe, S. V. Road,
Santacruz (W), Mumbai - 400 054.
Tel.: 022 - 26106552 / 26106960
Fax: 022 - 26106052
Email: bimalokpal.mumbai@cioins.co.in | Goa, Mumbai
Metropolitan Region
excluding Navi
Mumbai & Thane.

Golden Shield
Annexure A (Contd.)
Jurisdiction of Office Jurisdiction of Office
Office Details Office Details
Union Territory, District) Union Territory, District)
NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad State of Uttaranchal PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh Bihar, Jharkhand.
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, and the following Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main Districts of Uttar 1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building,
Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam Pradesh: Agra, Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur,
Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301. Aligarh, Bagpat, Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253 Bareilly, Bijnor, Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in
Budaun,
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in Bulandshehar, Etah, PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah Maharashtra, Area of
Kanooj, Mainpuri, Office of the Insurance Ombudsman, Navi Mumbai and
Mathura, Meerut, Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor, Thane excluding
Moradabad, C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N. C. Kelkar Road, Mumbai Metropolitan
Muzaffarnagar, Narayan Peth, Pune - 411 030. Region.
Oraiyya, Pilibhit,
Tel.: 020-41312555
Etawah, Farrukhabad,
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in
Firozbad,
Gautambodhanagar,
Ghaziabad, Hardoi,
Shahjahanpur, Hapur,
Shamli, Rampur,
Kashganj, Sambhal,
Amroha, Hathras,
Kanshiramnagar,
Saharanpur.
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
Mailing Address : 601 & 602, 6th Floor, Interface 16, New Linking Road, Malad (West), Mumbai - 400 064.
Corporate Office : ICICI Lombard House, 414, Veer Savarkar Marg, Near Siddhi Vinayak Temple, Prabhadevi, Mumbai 400 025.
Visit us at www.icicilombard.com • Mail us at customersupport@icicilombard.com • Toll Free No.: 1800 2666 (Toll Free also accessible from your mobile)
Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation. IRDA Reg. No. 115 UIN: ICIHLIP22012V012223
UIN : ICIHLIP22012V012223 31 CIN: L67200MH2000PLC129408

Table Row: Jurisdiction of Office
Union Territory, District) | Office Details

Table Row: NOIDA - Shri Chandra Shekhar Prasad
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Bhagwan Sahai Palace, 4th Floor, Main
Road, Naya Bans, Sector 15, Distt: Gautam
Buddh Nagar, U.P-201301.
Tel.: 0120-2514252 / 2514253
Email: bimalokpal.noida@cioins.co.in | State of Uttaranchal
and the following
Districts of Uttar
Pradesh: Agra,
Aligarh, Bagpat,
Bareilly, Bijnor,
Budaun,
Bulandshehar, Etah,
Kanooj, Mainpuri,
Mathura, Meerut,
Moradabad,
Muzaffarnagar,
Oraiyya, Pilibhit,
Etawah, Farrukhabad,
Firozbad,
Gautambodhanagar,
Ghaziabad, Hardoi,
Shahjahanpur, Hapur,
Shamli, Rampur,
Kashganj, Sambhal,
Amroha, Hathras,
Kanshiramnagar,
Saharanpur.

Table Row: Jurisdiction of Office
Union Territory, District) | Office Details

Table Row: PATNA - Shri N. K. Singh
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
1st Floor, Kalpana Arcade Building,
Bazar Samiti Road, Bahadurpur,
Patna 800 006. Tel.: 0612-2680952
Email: bimalokpal.patna@cioins.co.in | Bihar, Jharkhand.

Table Row: PUNE - Shri Vinay Sah
Office of the Insurance Ombudsman,
Jeevan Darshan Bldg., 3rd Floor,
C.T.S. No.s. 195 to 198, N. C. Kelkar Road,
Narayan Peth, Pune - 411 030.
Tel.: 020-41312555
Email: bimalokpal.pune@cioins.co.in | Maharashtra, Area of
Navi Mumbai and
Thane excluding
Mumbai Metropolitan
Region.